---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 4
chapter_order_number: 04
chapter_word: Four
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_long_name: The First Book of Moses, called Genesis
layout: chapter
---

<sup>1</sup>Now Adam knew Eve his wife, and she conceived, and bare Cain and said, 'I have gotten a man through God'. <sup>2</sup>And she again bare his brother Abel. And Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground. <sup>3</sup>And in process of time it came to pass, that Cain brought of the fruits of the earth a sacrifice unto the LORD. <sup>4</sup>And Abel, he also brought of the firstlings of his sheep, and of the fat thereof. And God looked upon Abel and upon his gifts, <sup>5</sup>but upon Cain and upon his sacrifices He had not respect. And Cain was exceeding sorrowful, and his countenance fell. <sup>6</sup>And the LORD God  said  unto  Cain,  'Why  art  thou  become  exceeding  sorrowful,  and  why  is  thy countenance fallen? <sup>7</sup>Hast thou not sinned if thou hast rightly offered it, but not rightly divided it? Be still; unto thee shall be his recourse, and thou shalt rule over him.' <sup>8</sup>And Cain said unto his brother Abel, 'Let us go out into the plain'. And it came to pass, when they were in the plain, that Cain rose up against Abel his brother, and slew him. <sup>9</sup>And the LORD God said unto Cain, 'Where is Abel thy brother?' And he said, 'I know not; am I my brother's keeper?' <sup>10</sup>And the LORD said, 'What hast thou done? the voice of thy brother's blood crieth unto Me from the ground. <sup>11</sup>And now art thou cursed from the earth, which hath opened her mouth to receive thy brother's blood from thy hand. <sup>12</sup>When thou tillest the earth, then it shall not continue to give unto thee her strength; groaning and trembling shalt thou be upon the earth.' <sup>13</sup>And Cain said unto the LORD God, 'My crime is too great for me to be forgiven. <sup>14</sup>If Thou castest me out this day from the face of the earth, then from Thy face shall I be hid, and I shall be groaning and trembling upon the earth; and it shall come to pass, that any one that findeth me shall slay me.' <sup>15</sup>And the LORD God said unto him, 'Not so; any one that slayeth Cain shall suffer vengeance sevenfold'. And the LORD God set a mark upon Cain, that none finding him should kill him. <sup>16</sup>And Cain went out from the presence of God, and dwelt in the land of Nod, over against Eden. 

<sup>17</sup>And Cain knew his wife, and she conceived and bare Enoch. And he builded a city, and he called the city after the name of his son, Enoch. <sup>18</sup>And unto Enoch was born Irad; and Irad begat Mehujael, and Mehujael begat Methusael, and Methusael begat Lamech. <sup>19</sup>And Lamech took unto him two wives; the name of the one was Adah, and the name of the second Zillah. <sup>20</sup>And Adah bare Jabal; he was the father of such as dwell in tents, feeding cattle. <sup>21</sup>And the name of his brother was Jubal; he it was that made known the psaltery and harp. <sup>22</sup>And Zillah, she also bare Tubal­cain; he was a smith, a forger of brass and iron; and the sister of Tubal­cain was Naamah. <sup>23</sup>And Lamech said unto his wives, Adah and Zillah, 'Hear my voice, ye wives of Lamech, hearken unto my words, for I have slain a man to my wounding, and a young man to my hurt. <sup>24</sup>For vengeance sevenfold is taken for Cain, but for Lamech seventy and sevenfold.'

<sup>25</sup>Now Adam knew Eve his wife, and she conceived and bare a son, and called his name Seth, saying, 'For God hath raised up to me another seed instead of Abel, whom Cain slew'. <sup>26</sup>And to Seth there was born a son, and he called his name Enos; he hoped to call upon the name of the LORD God.
