---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 7
chapter_order_number: 07
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

<sup>1</sup>And the LORD God said unto Noah, 'Enter, thou and all thy household, into the ark, for thee have I seen righteous before me in this generation. <sup>2</sup>And of the clean cattle take in to thee seven by seven, male and female, and of the unclean cattle two by two, male and female, <sup>3</sup>and of the clean fowls of the heaven seven by seven, male and female, and of all unclean fowls of the heaven two by two, male and female, to maintain seed upon all the earth. <sup>4</sup>For yet seven days, and I will bring rain upon the earth forty days and forty nights, and every thing that ariseth that I have made will I blot out from off the face of all the earth.'  <sup>5</sup>And Noah did all things whatsoever the LORD God commanded him.

<sup>6</sup>And Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of water came to pass upon the earth. <sup>7</sup>And Noah went in, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons' wives with him, into the ark because of the water of the flood. <sup>8</sup>And of the clean fowls, and of the unclean fowls, and of the clean cattle, and of the unclean cattle, and of all the creeping things upon the earth, <sup>9</sup>there went in two by two unto Noah into the ark, male and female, as God had commanded Noah. <sup>10</sup>And it came to pass after the seven days, that the water of the flood came upon the earth. <sup>11</sup>In the sixth hundredth year of Noah's life, in the second month, the seven and twentieth day of the month, on this day were all the fountains of the deep broken up, and the floodgates of heaven were opened. <sup>12</sup>And the rain came upon the earth forty days and forty nights. <sup>13</sup>On this day entered Noah, Shem, Ham, Japheth, the sons of Noah, and Noah's wife, and the three wives of his sons with him, into the ark. <sup>14</sup>And all the wild beasts after their kind, and all cattle after their kind, and every creeping thing that moveth itself on the earth after its kind, and every fowl after its kind, <sup>15</sup>went in unto Noah into the ark, two by two, male and female of all flesh, wherein is the breath of life. <sup>16</sup>And they that went in, went in male and female of all flesh, as God had commanded Noah. And the LORD God shut the ark from without upon him. <sup>17</sup>And the flood came forty days and forty nights upon the earth, and the water was multiplied, and bare up the ark, and it was lifted up on high from off the earth. <sup>18</sup>And the water prevailed, and was multiplied greatly upon the earth, and the ark was borne upon the water. <sup>19</sup>And the water prevailed, prevailed exceeding greatly upon the earth, and covered all the high mountains that were under heaven. <sup>20</sup>Fifteen cubits upwards was the water raised, and it covered all the high mountains. <sup>21</sup>And all flesh died that moveth upon the earth, both of fowls, and of cattle, and of wild beasts, and of every creeping thing that moveth upon the earth, and every man. <sup>22</sup>And all things that have the breath of life, and whatsoever was upon the dry land, died. <sup>23</sup>And He blotted out every thing that ariseth, which was upon the face of the earth, both man and beast, and creeping things and fowls of the heaven; and they were blotted out from the earth; and Noah only was left, and they that were with him in the ark. <sup>24</sup>And the water was raised over the earth an hundred and fifty days.
