---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 8
chapter_order_number: 08
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

<sup>1</sup>And God remembered Noah, and all the wild beasts, and all the cattle, and all the fowls, and all the creeping things that creep, as many as were with him in the ark; and God brought a wind upon the earth, and the water abated. <sup>2</sup>The fountains also of the deep and the floodgates of heaven were stopped, and the rain from heaven was restrained. <sup>3</sup>And the water diminished continually, and went off the earth; and after an hundred and fifty days the water decreased. <sup>4</sup>And the ark rested in the seventh month, on the seven and twentieth day of the month, upon the mountains of Ararat. <sup>5</sup>And the water decreased continually until the tenth month. And in the tenth month, on the first day of the month, were the tops of the mountains seen. <sup>6</sup>And it came to pass after forty days, that Noah opened the window of the ark which he had made; and he sent forth a raven, to see if the water had ceased. <sup>7</sup>And it went forth, and returned not until the water was dried from off the earth. <sup>8</sup>Also he sent forth a dove after it, to see if the water had ceased from off the face of the earth. <sup>9</sup>And the dove found no rest for her feet, and returned unto him into the ark; for the water was on the face of the whole earth. And he put forth his hand, and took her, and brought her in unto him into the ark. <sup>10</sup>And he stayed yet seven other days; and again he sent forth the dove from the ark. <sup>11</sup>And the dove returned unto him in the evening, and she had an olive leaf, a twig, in her mouth; and Noah knew that the water had ceased from off the earth. <sup>12</sup>And he stayed yet other seven days, and again he sent forth the dove, and she returned not again unto him any more. <sup>13</sup>And it came to pass in the six hundredth and first year of the life of Noah, in the first month, the first day of the month, that the water subsided from off the earth, and Noah opened the covering of the ark which he had made, and he saw that the water had subsided from the face of the earth. <sup>14</sup>And in the second month, on the seven and twentieth day of the month, was the earth dried. 

<sup>15</sup>And the LORD God spake unto Noah, saying, <sup>16</sup>'Come forth out of the ark, thou, and thy wife, and thy sons, and thy sons' wives with thee. <sup>17</sup>And bring forth with thee all the wild beasts as many as are with thee, and all flesh, both of fowls, and of cattle, and of every creeping thing that moveth upon the earth, and increase and multiply upon the earth.' <sup>18</sup>And Noah came forth, and his wife, and his sons, and his sons' wives with him, <sup>19</sup>and all the wild beasts, and all the cattle, and every fowl, and every creeping thing that moveth upon the earth, after their kind, came forth out of the ark. <sup>20</sup>And Noah builded an altar unto the LORD, and took of all the clean beasts, and of all the clean fowls, and offered them as a whole burnt­offering upon the altar. <sup>21</sup>And the LORD God smelled a savour of sweetness, and the LORD God considered and said, 'I will not again curse the ground earth any more for the works of men; for the imagination of man is bent intently upon evil things from his youth. I will not therefore smite again all living flesh, as I have done. <sup>22</sup>All the days of the earth, seedtime and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and spring, shall not cease by day or night.'
