---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 9
chapter_order_number: 09
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

<sup>1</sup>And God blessed Noah and his sons and said unto them, 'Increase and multiply, and fill the earth, and have dominion over it. <sup>2</sup>And the dread of you and the fear of you shall be upon all the wild beasts of the earth, and upon all the fowls of the heaven, and upon all things that move upon the earth, and upon all the fishes of the sea; under your hands have I put them. <sup>3</sup>And every creeping thing that liveth shall be for meat to you; even as the green herb have I given you all things. <sup>4</sup>But flesh with blood of life shall ye not eat, <sup>5</sup>for your blood of your lives will I require at the hand of all wild beasts, and at the hand of his brother man will I require the life of man. <sup>6</sup>Whoso sheddeth man's blood, in return for this blood shall his own be shed, for in the image of God made I man. <sup>7</sup>But do ye increase and multiply, and fill the earth, and have dominion over it.' 

<sup>8</sup>And God spake unto Noah, and to his sons with him, saying, <sup>9</sup>'And behold, I establish My covenant with you, and with your seed after you, <sup>10</sup>and with every living soul that is with you, of the fowls and of the cattle, and with all the wild beasts of the earth, as many as are with you, of all that came out of the ark. <sup>11</sup>And I will establish My covenant with you; neither shall all flesh die any more by the water of the flood, neither shall there any more be a flood of water to destroy all the earth.' <sup>12</sup>And the LORD God said unto Noah, 'This is the token of the covenant which I set between Me and you, and every living creature that is with you, for perpetual generations. <sup>13</sup>I will set My bow in the cloud, and it shall be for a token of a covenant between Me and the earth. <sup>14</sup>And it shall come to pass, when I gather clouds upon the earth, that My bow shall be seen in the cloud. <sup>15</sup>And I will remember My covenant, which is between Me and you, and every living soul in all flesh, and there shall no more be water for a flood to blot out all flesh. <sup>16</sup>And My bow shall be in the cloud, and I will look, that I may remember the everlasting covenant which is between Me and the earth, and between every living soul in all flesh that is upon the earth.' <sup>17</sup>And God said unto Noah, 'This is the token of the covenant which I have made between Me and all flesh that is upon the earth'.

<sup>18</sup>And the sons of Noah that went forth of the ark were Shem, Ham and Japheth; and Ham was father of Canaan. <sup>19</sup>These three are the sons of Noah; of these were men scattered abroad over the whole earth. 

<sup>20</sup>And Noah was the first be to be a husbandman, and he planted a vineyard. <sup>21</sup>And he drank of the wine, and was drunken, and was naked in his house. <sup>22</sup>And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father, and went out, and told his two brethren without. <sup>23</sup>And Shem and Japheth took a garment, and laid it upon both their back, and went backward, and covered the nakedness of their father. And their face was backward, and they saw not their father's nakedness. <sup>24</sup>And Noah recovered from the wine, and knew what his younger son had done unto him. <sup>25</sup>And he said, 'Cursed be Canaan; a bondservant shall he be unto his brethren'. <sup>26</sup>And he said, 'Blessed be the LORD God of Shem; and Canaan shall be his bondservant. <sup>27</sup>God make room for Japheth, and let him dwell in the habitations of Shem, and let Canaan be his servant.' 

<sup>28</sup>And Noah lived after the flood three hundred and fifty years. <sup>29</sup>And all the days of Noah were nine hundred and fifty years, and he died.
