---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 10
chapter_order_number: 10
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

<sup>1</sup>Now these are the generations of the sons of Noah; Shem, Cham and Japheth; and unto them were sons born after the flood. 

<sup>2</sup>The sons of Japheth; Gomer and Magog and Madai and Javan and Elisah and Tubal and Meshech and Tiras. <sup>3</sup>And the sons of Gomer; Ashkenaz and Riphath and Togarmah. <sup>4</sup>And the sons of Javan; Elishah and Tarshish and the Kittim and Dodanim. <sup>5</sup>From these were the isles of the Gentiles divided in their land, every one according to his tongue, in their tribes, and in their nations.

<sup>6</sup>And the sons of Ham; Cush and Mizraim, Phut and Canaan. <sup>7</sup>And the sons of Cush; Seba and Havilah and Sabtah and Ramaah and Sabtheca. And the sons of Raamah; Sheba, and Dedan. <sup>8</sup>And Cush begat Nimrod; he began to be a giant upon the earth. <sup>9</sup>He was a giant hunter before the LORD God; wherefore they say, 'Even as Nimrod, the giant hunter before the LORD'. <sup>10</sup>And the beginning of his kingdom was Babel and Erech and Accad and Calneh, in the land of Shinar. <sup>11</sup>Out of that land came forth Asshur, and builded Nineveh, and the city Rehoboth, and Calah, <sup>12</sup>and Resen between Nineveh and Calah; the same is the great city. <sup>13</sup>And Mizraim begat the Ludim, and the Anamim, and the Lehabim, and the Naphtuhim, and the Pathrusim, <sup>14</sup>and the Casluhim, from whence came Philistim, and the Caphtorim. <sup>15</sup>And Canaan begat Sidon his firstborn, <sup>16</sup>and the Hittite, and the Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgasite, and the HHivite, and the Arkite, <sup>17</sup>and the Sinite, the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite. <sup>18</sup>And after this were the tribes of the Canaanites scattered abroad. <sup>19</sup>And the borders of the Canaanites were from Sidon, until one cometh to Gerar and Gaza, until one cometh unto Sodom and Gomorrah, and Admah, and Zeboim, even unto Lasha. <sup>20</sup>These were the sons of Ham, in their tribes, according to their tongues, in their countries, and in their nations. 

<sup>21</sup>And unto Shem himself also were children born, the father of all the sons of Eber, the brother of Japheth the elder. <sup>22</sup>The sons of Shem; Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, and Aram, and Cainan. <sup>23</sup>And the sons of Aram; Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Mash. <sup>24</sup>And Arphaxad begat Cainan, and Cainan begat Salah, and Salah begat Eber. <sup>25</sup>And unto Eber were born two sons; the name of the one was Peleg, for in his days was the earth divided; and his brother's name was Joktan. <sup>26</sup>And Joktan begat Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, Jerah, and Odorrah, and Ebel, and Diklah, <sup>27</sup>and Obal, and Abimael, Sheba, <sup>28</sup>and Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab. <sup>29</sup>All these were the sons of Joktan. <sup>30</sup>And their dwelling was from Mesha until one cometh unto Sephar, a mount of the east. <sup>31</sup>These were the sons of Shem, in their tribes according to their tongues, in their countries, and in their nations. 

<sup>32</sup>These  are  the  tribes  of  the  sons  of  Noah  according  to  their  generations, according to their nations. Of them were the isles of the nations scattered abroad on the earth after the flood.
