---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 14
chapter_order_number: 14
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

<sup>1</sup>And it came to pass in the reign of Amraphel king of Shinar, and Arioch king of Ellasar, Chedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of nations, <sup>2</sup>that they made war with Bera king of Sodom, and with Birsha king of Gomorrah, and with Shinab king of Admah, and with Shemeber king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela (this is Zoar). <sup>3</sup>All these agreed with one consent at the salt vale (this is the sea of salt). <sup>4</sup>Twelve years were they in subjection unto Chedorlaomer, but in the thirteenth year they rebelled. <sup>5</sup>And in the fourteenth year came Chedorlaomer and the kings that were with him, and cut to pieces the giants in Ashteroth Karnaim and strong nations together with them and the Emim in the city of Shaveh, <sup>6</sup>and the Horites in the mountains of Seir, unto the terebinth of Paran, which is in the wilderness. <sup>7</sup>And they returned and came unto the spring of judgment (this is Kadesh), and they cut to pieces all the chiefs of Amalek and the Amorites that dwell in Hazezon­tamar. <sup>8</sup>And there went out the king of Sodom and the king of Gomorrah and the king of Admah and the king of Zeboiim and the king of Bela (this is Zoar), and they set themselves in array against them to battle in the vale of salt, <sup>9</sup>against Chedorlaomer the king of Elam, and Tidal, king of nations, and Amraphel king of Shinar, and Arioch king of Ellasar, the four kings against the five. <sup>10</sup>Now the vale of salt was full of slimepits. And the king of Sodom and the king of Gomorrah fled and fell in there, and they that were left behind fled to the mountain country. <sup>11</sup>And they took all the horse of Sodom and Gomorrah and all their victuals and went their way. <sup>12</sup>And they took also Lot, Abram's brother's son, and his goods and departed, for he dwelt in Sodom. 

<sup>13</sup>And there came one of them that had been rescued and told Abram the traveller. And he dwelt by the oak of Mamre the Amorite, the brother of Eschol, and the brother of Aner, which were confederate with Abram. <sup>14</sup>And when Abram heard that his nephew Lot was taken captive, he numbered of his own home­born servants, three hundred and eighteen, and pursued them unto Dan. <sup>15</sup>And he came upon them by night, he and his servants, and smote them, and pursued them unto Hobah, which is on the left hand of Damascus. <sup>16</sup>And he brought back all the horse of Sodom, and brought back again his nephew Lot, and all his goods, and the women, and the people. 

<sup>17</sup>And the king of Sodom went out to meet him, after that he returned from the slaughter of Chedolaomer, and of the kings that were with him in the valley of Saby (this was the kings' plain). <sup>18</sup>And Melchizedek king of Salem brought forth bread and wine, and he was priest of the Most High God. <sup>19</sup>And he blessed Abram and said, 'Blessed be Abram of the Most High God, Who created the heaven and the earth; <sup>20</sup>and blessed be the Most High God, Who hath delivered up thine enemies under thy hands to thee'. And Abram gave him the tithe of all. <sup>21</sup>And the king of Sodom said unto Abram, 'Give me the men, and take the horse to thyself'. <sup>22</sup>And Abram said to the king of Sodom, 'I will stretch out my hand unto the LORD, the Most High God, Who created the heaven and the earth, <sup>23</sup>if I shall take of all thy goods from a thread even to a shoelatchet, lest thou shouldest say, “I have made Abram rich”; <sup>24</sup>excepting only that which the young men have eaten, and the portion of the men who went with me, Eschol, and Aner, and Mamre; these shall take a portion'.
