---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 15
chapter_order_number: 15
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

<sup>1</sup>And after these things the word of the LORD came unto Abram in a vision, saying, 'Fear not, Abram; I do shield thee, and thy reward shall be exceeding great'. <sup>2</sup>And Abram said, 'Master, O LORD, what wilt Thou give me, seeing I go away childless save  for  the  son  of  Masek my  bondwoman,  born  in  my  house,  this  Eliezer  of Damascus?' <sup>3</sup>And Abram said, 'Since Thou hast given me no seed, my bondman born in my house shall be mine heir'. <sup>4</sup>And forthwith a voice of the LORD came unto him, saying, 'This shall not be thine heir, but he that shall come forth out of thee shall be thine heir'. <sup>5</sup>And He brought him forth abroad and said unto him, 'Look up to heaven and number the stars, if thou be able to number them'. And he said, 'So shall thy seed be'. <sup>6</sup>And Abram believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness. <sup>7</sup>And He said unto him, 'I am the God that brought thee out of the land of the Chaldeans, to give thee this land to inherit'. <sup>8</sup>And he said, 'O Master, LORD, whereby may I know that I shall inherit it?' <sup>9</sup>And He said unto him, 'Take Me a heifer of three years old, and a she­ goat of three years old, and a ram of three years old, and a turtledove, and a pigeon'. <sup>10</sup>And he took unto Him all these, and divided them in the midst, and set them one against another; but the birds divided he not. <sup>11</sup>And fowls came down upon the carcases, even upon the divided parts of them, and Abram sat down by them. <sup>12</sup>And at about the going down of the sun, a trance fell upon Abram, and lo, a horror of great darkness falleth upon him. <sup>13</sup>And it was said unto Abram, 'Thou shalt know of a surety that thy seed shall be a stranger in a land that is not their own, and they shall bring them into bondage, and afflict them, and humble them four hundred years. <sup>14</sup>And the nation whom they shall serve, will I judge; and afterward shall they come out hither with great substance. <sup>15</sup>But thou shalt go to thy fathers in peace, and be buried in a good old age. <sup>16</sup>But in the fourth generation they shall come hither again, for the sins of the Amorites are not yet filled up even until now.' <sup>17</sup>And when the sun went down there was a flame, and behold, a smoking furnace and lamps of fire, that passed between these divided pieces. <sup>18</sup>In that day the LORD made a covenant with Abram, saying, 'Unto  thy  seed  will  I  give  this  land  from  the  river  of  Egypt  unto  the  great  river Euphrates, <sup>19</sup>the Kenites and the Kenizites, and the Kadmonites, <sup>20</sup>and the Hittites, and the Perizites, and the Raphaims, and the Amorites, and the Canaanites, and the Hivites, and the Girgashites, and the Jebusites'.
