---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 17
chapter_order_number: 17
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

<sup>1</sup>And Abram was ninety years old and nine, and the LORD appeared to Abram, and said unto him, 'I am thy God. Be thou well pleasing before Me, and be thou blameless. <sup>2</sup>And I will establish My covenant between Me and thee, and I will multiply thee exceedingly.' <sup>3</sup>And Abram fell on his face, and God talked with him, saying, <sup>4</sup>'And I, behold, My covenant is with thee, and thou shalt be a father of a multitude of nations. <sup>5</sup>Neither shall thy name any more be called Abram, but thy name shall be Abraham; for I have made thee a father of many nations. <sup>6</sup>And I will increase thee very exceedingly, and I will make nations of thee, and kings shall come out of thee. <sup>7</sup>And I will establish My covenant between Me and thee, and thy seed after thee to their generations, for an everlasting covenant, to be thy God, and thy seed's after thee. <sup>8</sup>And I will give unto thee and thy seed after thee the land wherein thou sojournest, all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession, and I will be God to them.' <sup>9</sup>And God said unto Abraham, 'Thou also shalt keep My covenant, thou and thy seed after thee for their generations. <sup>10</sup>And this is the covenant which thou shalt keep between Me and you, and betwixt thy seed after thee unto their generations; every man­child of you shall be circumcised. <sup>11</sup>And ye shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskin, and it shall be for a token of a covenant betwixt Me and you. <sup>12</sup>And the child of eight days shall be circumcised among you, every man­child throughout your generations, and he that is born in the house and he that is bought with money of every son of a stranger, which is not of thy seed. <sup>13</sup>He that is born in thy house, and he that is bought with money, shall needs be circumcised, and My covenant shall be on your flesh for an everlasting covenant. <sup>14</sup>And the  uncircumcised  man­child,  which  shall  not  be  circumcised  in  the  flesh  of  his foreskin on the eighth day, that soul shall be cut off from his kindred, for he hath broken My covenant.' 

<sup>15</sup>And God said unto Abraham, 'As for Sarai thy wife, her name shall not be called Sarai; but Sarah shall her name be. <sup>16</sup>And I will bless her, and give thee a son of her; yea, I will bless him, and he shall become nations, and kings of nations shall be of him.' <sup>17</sup>And Abraham fell upon his face, and laughed, and spake in his mind, saying, 'Shall there be a son unto him that is an hundred years old, and shall Sarah, that is ninety years old, bear?'  <sup>18</sup>And Abraham said unto God, 'Let this Ishmael live before Thee'. <sup>19</sup>And God said unto Abraham, 'Yea, behold, Sarah thy wife shall bear thee a son, and thou shalt call his name Isaac, and I will establish My covenant with him for an everlasting covenant to be a God to him, and to his seed after him. <sup>20</sup>And as for Ishmael, behold, I have heard thee; and behold, I have blessed him, and will increase him, and multiply him exceedingly. Twelve nations shall he beget, and I will make him a great nation. <sup>21</sup>But My covenant will I establish with Isaac, which Sarah shall bear unto thee at this time in the next year.'  <sup>22</sup>And He left off talking with him, and God went up from Abraham. 

<sup>23</sup>And Abraham took Ismael his son, and all his homeborn servants, and all that were bought with money, and every male of the men that were in Abraham's house, and circumcised their foreskins in the time of that day, according as God had spoken unto him. <sup>24</sup>And Abraham was ninety years old and nine, when he circumcised the flesh of his foreskin. <sup>25</sup>And Ishmael his son was thirteen years old, when he circumcised the flesh of his foreskin. <sup>26</sup>And in the time of that day was Abraham circumcised, and Ishmael his son.  <sup>27</sup>And all the men of his house, both them that were born in the house, and them that were bought with money of foreign nations, he circumcised them.
