---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 20
chapter_order_number: 20
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

<div>1</div>And  Abraham  removed  from  thence  toward  the  south  country,  and  dwelt between Kadesh and Shur, and sojourned in Gerar. <sup>2</sup>And Abraham said of Sarah his wife, 'She is my sister'; for he feared to say, 'She is my wife,' lest at any time the men of the city should kill him for her sake. So Abimelech king of Gerar sent, and took Sarah. <sup>3</sup>And God came to Abimelech in sleep by night, and said, 'Behold, thou diest for the woman which thou hast taken, seeing she is married to a man.'  <sup>4</sup>But Abimelech had not touched her, and he said, 'LORD, wilt thou destroy an ignorant and a righteous nation? <sup>5</sup>Said he not unto me, “She is my sister,” and said she not unto me, “He is my brother?” With a pure heart and in the righteousness of my hands have I done this.' <sup>6</sup>And God said unto him in sleep, 'Yea, I knew that thou didst this with a pure heart, and I spared thee, that thou shouldest not sin against Me; therefore suffered I thee not to touch her. <sup>7</sup>Now therefore restore the man his wife, for he is a prophet, and he shall pray for thee, and thou shalt live. But know thou that if thou restore her not, thou shalt die, and all that are thine.' <sup>8</sup>And Abimelech rose up early in the morning, and called all his servants, and spake all these words in their ears, and all the men were sore afraid. <sup>9</sup>And Abimelech called Abraham, and said unto him, 'What is this that thou hast done unto us? Have we sinned against thee, that thou hast brought on me and on my kingdom a great sin? Thou hast done a deed unto me that none ought to do.' <sup>10</sup>And Abimelech said unto Abraham, 'What sawest thou, that thou hast done this thing?' <sup>11</sup>And Abraham said, 'Because I said, “Surely the fear of God is not in this place, and they will slay me for my wife's sake.” <sup>12</sup>For indeed she is my sister by my father, but not by my mother, and she became my wife. <sup>13</sup>And it came to pass, when God brought me forth out of my father's house, that I said unto her, “This righteousness shalt thou do unto me; in every place whither we shall come say of me, “He is my brother.”' <sup>14</sup>And Abimelech took a thousand pieces of silver, and sheep, and calves, and menservants, and womenservants, and gave them unto Abraham, and restored him Sarah his wife. <sup>15</sup>And Abimelech said unto Abraham, 'Behold, my land is before thee; dwell wheresoever it pleaseth thee'. <sup>16</sup>And unto Sarah he said, 'Behold, I have given thy brother a thousand pieces of silver; these shall be to thee for the price of thy countenance, and unto all those women that are with thee. And speak the truth in all things.' <sup>17</sup>So Abraham prayed unto God, and God healed Abimelech, and his wife, and his maidservants, and they bare children. <sup>18</sup>For the LORD had fast closed up from without every womb in the house of Abimelech, because of Sarah, Abraham's wife.
