---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 21
chapter_order_number: 21
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

<sup>1</sup>And the LORD visited Sarah as He had said, and the LORD did unto Sarah as He had spoken. <sup>2</sup>And she conceived, and bare Abraham a son in his old age, at the set time according as the LORD had spoken to him. <sup>3</sup>And Abraham called the name of his son  that  was  born  unto  him,  whom  Sarah  bare  to  him,  Isaac. <sup>4</sup>And  Abraham circumcised Isaac on the eighth day, as God had commanded him. <sup>5</sup>And Abraham was an hundred years old, when his son Isaac was born unto him. <sup>6</sup>And Sarah said, 'The LORD hath made laughter for me, for whosoever shall hear will rejoice with me'. <sup>7</sup>And she said, 'Who shall say unto Abraham that Sarah giveth a child suck?  For I have borne a son in mine old age.' 

<sup>8</sup>And the child grew, and was weaned, and Abraham made a great feast the same day that Isaac his son was weaned. <sup>9</sup>And Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian, which was born unto Abraham, sporting with Isaac her son, <sup>10</sup>and she said unto Abraham, 'Cast out this bondwoman and her son, for the son of this bondwoman shall not inherit with my son Isaac'. <sup>11</sup>And the thought appeared very hard in Abraham's sight concerning his son. <sup>12</sup>But God said unto Abraham, 'Let it not be hard in thy sight concerning the child, and concerning the bondwoman. In all that Sarah shall say unto thee, hearken unto her voice; for in Isaac shall thy seed be called for thee. <sup>13</sup>And also of the son of this bondwoman will I make a great nation, because he is thy seed.' <sup>14</sup>And Abraham rose up early in the morning, and took loaves and a skin of water, and gave them unto Hagar, and put them on her shoulders, and the child, and sent her away. And she departed, and wandered in the wilderness near the Well of the Oath. <sup>15</sup>And the water was spent out of the skin, and she cast the child under a fir tree. <sup>16</sup>And she went, and sat her down over against him a good way off, as it were a bowshot; for she said, 'Surely I cannot see the death of my child'. And she sat over against him, and the child cried aloud, and wept. <sup>17</sup>And God heard the voice of the child from the place where he was, and an angel of God called to Hagar out of Heaven, and said unto her, 'What is it, Hagar? Fear not; for God hath heard the voice of the lad from the place where he is. <sup>18</sup>Arise, and take up the lad, and hold him in thine hand, for I will make him a great nation.' <sup>19</sup>And God opened her eyes, and she saw a well of living water; and she went, and filled the skin with water, and gave the lad drink. <sup>20</sup>And God was with the lad, and he grew, and dwelt in the wilderness, and became an archer. <sup>21</sup>And he dwelt in the wilderness of Paran, and his mother took him a wife out of the land of Egypt. 

<sup>22</sup>And it came to pass at that time that Abimelech and Ochozath his friend and Phichol the chief captain of his host spake unto Abraham, saying, 'God is with thee in all things whatsoever thou mayest do. <sup>23</sup>Now swear unto me by God that thou wilt not injure me, nor my seed, nor my name; but according to the righteousness that I have performed with thee, thou shalt deal with me, and with the land wherein thou hast sojourned.'  <sup>24</sup>And Abraham said, 'I will swear'. <sup>25</sup>And Abraham reproved Abimelech because of the wells of water, which Abimelech's servants had taken away. <sup>26</sup>And Abimelech said unto him, 'I know not who hath done this thing, neither didst thou tell it me, neither yet heard I of it, but today'. <sup>27</sup>And Abraham took sheep and calves, and gave them unto Abimelech, and both of them made a covenant. <sup>28</sup>And Abraham set seven ewe lambs to stand by themselves. <sup>29</sup>And Abimelech said, 'What are these seven ewe lambs which thou hast set to stand by themselves?'  <sup>30</sup>And Abraham said, 'Thou shalt receive the seven ewe lambs of me, that they may be a witness unto me, that I have dug this well'. <sup>31</sup>Wherefore he called the name of that place, The Well of the Oath, because there they sware both of them. <sup>32</sup>And they made a covenant at the Well of the Oath. And there rose up Abimelech, and Ochozath his friend, and Phichol, the chief captain of his host, and they returned into the land of the Philistines. <sup>33</sup>And Abraham planted a plowed field at the Well of the Oath, and called there on the name of the LORD, the everlasting God. <sup>34</sup>And Abraham sojourned in the Philistines' land many days.
