---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 22
chapter_order_number: 22
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

<sup>1</sup>And it came to pass after these things that God did prove Abraham, and said unto him, 'Abraham, Abraham'. And he said, 'Behold, here I am'. <sup>2</sup>And He said, 'Take thy son, the beloved, whom thou lovest, Isaac, and get thee into the high land, and offer him there for an whole burnt­offering upon one of the mountains which I will tell thee of'. <sup>3</sup>And Abraham rose up in the morning, and saddled his ass, and took two servants with him, and Isaac his son; and he clave the wood for a whole burnt­offering, and rose up, and departed, and came unto the place of which God spake unto him on the third day. <sup>4</sup>And Abraham looked up with his eyes, and saw the place afar off. <sup>5</sup>And Abraham said unto his servants, 'Sit ye here with the ass, and I and the lad will go yonder; and when we have worshipped, we will come again to you'. <sup>6</sup>And Abraham took the wood of the whole burnt­offering, and laid it upon Isaac his son; and he took the fire and the knife into his hands, and they went the two of them together. <sup>7</sup>And Isaac said unto Abraham his father, 'Father'. And he said, What is it, son?' And he said, 'Behold the fire and the wood; where is the sheep for an whole burnt­offering?' <sup>8</sup>And Abraham said, 'My son, God will provide Himself a sheep for an whole burnt­offering'. And they went both of them together, <sup>9</sup>and they came to the place which God had told him of, and Abraham builded the altar there, and laid the wood upon it, and bound the feet of Isaac his son, and laid him on the altar upon the wood. <sup>10</sup>And Abraham stretched forth his hand, to take the knife to slay his son. <sup>11</sup>And an angel of the LORD called unto him out of heaven, and said, 'Abraham, Abraham'. And he said, 'Behold, here I am'. <sup>12</sup>And he said, 'Lay not thy hand upon the lad, neither do thou any thing unto him; for now I know that thou fearest God, and for my sake thou hast not spared thy beloved son'. <sup>13</sup>And Abraham lifted up his eyes, and looked; and behold, a ram caught in a sabek plant by his horns; and Abraham went and took the ram, and offered him up for an whole burnt­offering in the stead of Isaac his son. <sup>14</sup>And Abraham called the name of that place, The LORD Hath Seen, that they might say today, 'In the mount the LORD was seen'. <sup>15</sup>And an angel of the LORD called unto Abraham out of Heaven the second time, and said, <sup>16</sup>'By Myself have I sworn', saith the LORD, 'for because thou hast done this thing, and for My sake hast not spared thy beloved son, <sup>17</sup>surely in blessing I will bless thee, and in multiplying I will multiply thy seed as the stars of Heaven, and as the sand which is by the sea shore; and thy seed shall inherit the cities of their enemies.<sup>18</sup>And in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed, because thou hast hearkened unto My voice.' <sup>19</sup>So Abraham returned unto his servants; and they rose up, and went together to the Well of the Oath, and Abraham dwelt at the Well of the Oath.

<sup>20</sup>And it came to pass after these things, that it was told Abraham, saying, 'Behold Milcah, she hath also borne sons unto thy brother Nahor; <sup>21</sup>Huz the firstborn, and Buz his brother, and Kemuel the father of the Syrians, <sup>22</sup>and Chesed, and Hazo, and Pildash, and Jidlaph, and Bethuel'. <sup>23</sup>And Bethuel begat Rebekah. These are eight sons, which Milcah did bear to Nahor, Abraham's brother. <sup>24</sup>And his concubine, whose name was Rheuma, she bare also Tebah, and Gaham, and Thahas, and Maachah.
