---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 24
chapter_order_number: 24
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

<sup>1</sup>And  Abraham  was  older,  well­stricken  in  age,  and  the  LORD  had  blessed Abraham in all things. <sup>2</sup>And Abraham said unto his servant, the elder of his house, that ruled over all that he had, 'Put thy hand under my thigh, <sup>3</sup>and I will make thee swear by the LORD, the God of heaven, and the God of the earth, that thou shalt not take a wife unto my son Isaac of the daughters of the Canaanites with whom I dwell in the midst of them. <sup>4</sup>But thou shalt go unto my country, where I was born, and to my tribe, and take from thence a wife unto my son Isaac.' <sup>5</sup>And the servant said unto him, 'If the woman be not willing to return with me unto this land, shall I bring again thy son unto the land from whence thou camest?' <sup>6</sup>And Abraham said unto him, 'Take heed to thyself that thou bring not my son thither again. <sup>7</sup>The LORD God of heaven, and the God of the earth, Which took me from my father's house, and from the land where I was born, Which spake unto me, and that sware unto me, saying, “Unto thee and thy seed will I give this land”, He shall send His angel before thee, and thou shalt take a wife unto my son from thence. <sup>8</sup>And if the woman will not be willing to come with thee into this land, then thou shalt be clear from this mine oath; only bring not my son thither again.'  <sup>9</sup>And the servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham his master, and sware to him concerning this matter. 

<sup>10</sup>And the servant took ten camels of the camels of his master, and took of all the goods of his lord with him; and rising up, he went to Mesopotamia, into the city of Nahor. <sup>11</sup>And he suffered the camels to rest without the city by the well of water toward the evening, when the women go out to draw water. <sup>12</sup>And he said, 'O LORD God of my master Abraham, prosper my way before me this day, and deal mercifully with my master Abraham. <sup>13</sup>Behold, I stand by the well of water, and the daughters of them that dwell in the city come out to draw water; <sup>14</sup>and it shall come to pass, that the damsel to whom I shall say, “Incline thy pitcher, that I may drink”, and she shall say, “Drink, and I will give thy camels drink, until they are done drinking”; even this same hast Thou prepared for Thy servant Isaac, and thereby shall I know that Thou hast dealt mercifully with my master Abraham'. <sup>15</sup>And it came to  pass, before  he had  done speaking in his mind, that behold, Rebekah came out, who was born to Bethuel son of Milcah, the wife of Nahor, Abraham's brother, with her pitcher upon her shoulders. <sup>16</sup>And the damsel was very fair to look upon; she was a virgin, neither had any man known her; and she went down to the well, and filled her pitcher, and came up. <sup>17</sup>And the servant ran to meet her and said, 'Give me a little water to drink of thy pitcher'. <sup>18</sup>And she said, 'Drink, my lord'. And she hasted, and let down her pitcher upon her arm, and gave him to drink until he had done drinking. <sup>19</sup>And she said, 'I will draw water for thy camels also, until they have all done drinking'. <sup>20</sup>And she hasted, and emptied the pitcher into the trough, and ran again unto the well to draw water , and fetched water for all the camels. <sup>21</sup>And the man took great notice of her, and held his peace, to wit whether the LORD had made his journey prosperous or not. <sup>22</sup>And it came to pass, when all the camels had done drinking, that the man took golden earrings, each of a drachma weight, and two bracelets for her arms; their weight was ten pieces of gold. <sup>23</sup>And he asked her and said, 'Whose daughter art thou? Tell me if there be room in thy father's house for us to lodge in.'  <sup>24</sup>And she said unto him, 'I am the daughter of Bethuel the son of Milcah, which she bare unto Nahor'. <sup>25</sup>And she said unto him, 'We have both straw and provender in abundance, and room to lodge in'. <sup>26</sup>And the man was well pleased, and worshipped the LORD, and said, <sup>27</sup>'Blessed be the LORD God of my lord Abraham, who hath not withholdenen righteousness and truth from my lord. The LORD hath prospered me on the way to the house of my lord's brother.' 

<sup>28</sup>And the damsel ran, and told her mother's house according to these words. <sup>29</sup>And Rebekah had a brother, whose name was Laban; and Laban ran out to meet the man nigh unto the well. <sup>30</sup>And it came to pass, when he saw the earrings and the bracelets upon his sister's arms, and when he heard the words of Rebekah his sister, saying, 'Thus spake the man unto me', that he came unto the man, as he stood by the camels at the well. <sup>31</sup>And he said unto him, 'Come in hither, thou blessed of the LORD; wherefore standest thou without?  For I have prepared the house and room for the<sup>22</sup>camels.'  <sup>32</sup>And the man came into the house, and he ungirded the camels, and gave straw and provender for the camels, and water for his feet, and the men's feet that were with him. <sup>33</sup>And he set before them loaves to eat, but he said, 'I will not eat until I have told mine errand'. And he said, 'Speak on'.

<sup>34</sup>And he said, 'I am Abraham's servant. <sup>35</sup>And the LORD hath blessed my master greatly, and he is exalted, and He hath given him sheep and calves, silver and gold, menservants and maidservants, camels and asses. <sup>36</sup>And Sarah my master's wife bare one son to my master after that he had waxed old, and unto him hath he given whatsoever he hath. <sup>37</sup>And my master made me swear, saying, “Thou shalt not take a wife to my son of the daughters of the Canaanites, among whom I sojourn in their land; <sup>38</sup>but thou shalt go unto my father's house, and to my tribe, and take from thence a wife unto my son”. <sup>39</sup>And I said unto my master, “Peradventure the woman will not go with me”. <sup>40</sup>And he said unto me, “The LORD God, before Whom I have been well pleasing, Himself will send out His angel with thee and prosper thy journey, and thou shalt take a wife for my son of my tribe, and of my father's house. <sup>41</sup>Then shalt thou be clear from my curse; for whensoever thou shalt have come to my tribe, and they shall not give thee her, then shalt thou be clear from mine oath.” <sup>42</sup>And I came this day unto the well and said, “O LORD God of my master Abraham, if now Thou do prosper my journey whereon I go; <sup>43</sup>behold, I stand by the well of the water, and the daughters of the men of the city will come forth to draw water; and it shall come to pass that the damsel to whom I shall say, 'Give me a little water of thy pitcher to drink', <sup>44</sup>and she shall say to me, 'Both drink thou, and I will draw water for thy camels'; this same shall be the woman whom the LORD hath prepared for His own servant Isaac. And hereby shall I know that Thou hast wrought mercy with my master Abraham.”  <sup>45</sup>And it came to pass, before I had done speaking in my mind, that straightway Rebekah came forth with her pitcher on her shoulders, and she went down unto the well, and drew water. And I said unto her, “Give me to drink”. <sup>46</sup>And she made haste, and let down her pitcher from herself upon her arm, and said, “Drink, and I will give thy camels drink”. And I drank, and she gave the camels drink. <sup>47</sup>And I asked her, and said, “Whose daughter art thou? Tell me.” And she said, “I am daughter of Bethuel, Nahor's son, whom Milcah bare unto him”. And I put the earrings upon her, and the bracelets upon her arms. <sup>48</sup>And being well pleased, I worshipped the LORD, and blessed the LORD God of my master Abraham, Which hath prospered me in the way of truth to take my master's brother's daughter unto his son. <sup>49</sup>If then ye will do mercy and righteousness toward my lord, tell me; and if not, tell me, that I may turn to the right hand, or to the left.' 

<sup>50</sup>And Laban and Bethuel answered and said, 'This matter is come from the LORD; therefore we shall not be able to speak against thee bad for good. <sup>51</sup>Behold, Rebekah is before thee; take her, go quickly, and let her be thy master's son's wife, as the LORD hath said'. <sup>52</sup>And it came to pass that, when Abraham's servant heard these words, he did obeisance to the earth unto the LORD. <sup>53</sup>And the servant brought forth jewels of silver and gold, and raiment, and gave them to Rebekah; he gave also gifts to her brother and to her mother gifts. <sup>54</sup>And they did eat and drink, both he and the men that were with him, and slept.

And he rose up in the morning and said, 'Send me forth that I may depart unto my master'. <sup>55</sup>And her brethren and her mother said, 'Let the damsel abide with us about ten days, and after that she shall depart'. <sup>56</sup>But he said unto them, 'Hinder me not, seeing the LORD hath prospered my journey for me; send me forth that I may depart to my lord'. <sup>57</sup>And they said, 'Let us call the damsel, and inquire at her mouth'. <sup>58</sup>And they called Rebekah, and said unto her, 'Wilt thou go with this man?' And she said, 'I will go'. <sup>59</sup>So they sent forth Rebekah their sister, and her goods, and Abraham's servant, and those with him. <sup>60</sup>And they blessed Rebekah, and said unto her, 'Thou art our sister; become thou the mother of thousands of thousands, and let thy seed possess the cities of their adversaries'. <sup>61</sup>And Rebekah arose, and her damsels, and they<sup>23</sup>mounted upon the camels, and went with the man; and the servant took Rebekah, and departed. <sup>62</sup>And Isaac went through the wilderness to the Well of the Vision, and dwelt in the land toward the south. <sup>63</sup>And Isaac went out to meditate in the field toward the eventide, and he lifted up his eyes, and beheld camels coming. <sup>64</sup>And Rebekah lifted up her eyes, and saw Isaac, and she lighted off the camel quickly. <sup>65</sup>And she said unto the servant, 'What man is that that walketh in the plain to meet us?' And the servant said, 'This is my master'. And she took her veil, and covered herself. <sup>66</sup>And the servant told Isaac all the things that he had done. <sup>67</sup>And Isaac went into the house of his mother, and took Rebekah, and she became his wife, and he loved her, and Isaac was comforted for his mother Sarah.
