---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 26
chapter_order_number: 26
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

<sup>1</sup>And there was a famine in the land, beside the former famine that was in the time of Abraham, and Isaac went unto Abimelech king of the Philistines, unto Gerar. <sup>2</sup>And the LORD appeared unto him, and said, 'Go not down into Egypt, but dwell in the land which I shall tell thee of. <sup>3</sup>And sojourn in this land, and I will be with thee, and will bless thee; for unto thee, and unto thy seed, I will give all this land, and I will establish Mine oath which I sware unto Abraham thy father. <sup>4</sup>And I will make thy seed to multiply as the stars of heaven, and will give unto thy seed all this land; and in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed; <sup>5</sup>because that Abraham thy father hearkened unto My voice, and kept Mine ordinances, My commandments, My statutes, and My laws.' <sup>6</sup>And Isaac dwelt in Gerar. 

<sup>7</sup>And the men of the place asked him of Rebekah his wife; and he said, 'She is my sister'; for he feared to say, 'She is my wife', lest at any time the men of the place should kill him for Rebekah, because she was fair to look upon. <sup>8</sup>And he remained there a long time, and Abimelech king of the Philistines leaned to look out at the window, and saw Isaac sporting with Rebekah his wife. <sup>9</sup>And Abimelech called Isaac and said unto him, 'Is she then thy wife? “Why saidst thou, She is my sister?” And Isaac said unto him, 'Because I said, “Lest I die on her account” '. <sup>10</sup>And Abimelech said unto him, 'What is this thou hast done unto us? one of my kindred might have lien with thy  wife,  and  thou  shouldest  have  brought  a  sin  of  ignorance  upon  us'. <sup>11</sup>And Abimelech charged all his people, saying, 'Every man that toucheth this man or his wife shall be liable to death'. <sup>12</sup>And Isaac sowed in that land, and he found in that year barley an hundredfold; and the LORD blessed him. <sup>13</sup>And the man was exalted, and went forward, and prospered until he became very great. <sup>14</sup>And he had flocks of sheep, and herds of cattle, and many tilled lands, and the Philistines envied him. <sup>15</sup>And all the wells which his father's servants had digged in the days of Abraham his father, the Philistines had stopped them, and filled them with earth. <sup>16</sup>And Abimelech said unto Isaac, 'Go from us, for thou art become much mightier than we'. <sup>17</sup>And Isaac departed thence, and abided in the valley of Gerar, and dwelt there. <sup>18</sup>And Isaac digged again the wells of water, which his father Abraham's servants had diggged; and the Philistines had stopped them after the death of Abraham his father, and he gave them names after the names by which his father had called them. <sup>19</sup>And Isaac's servants digged in the valley of Gerar, and found there a well of living water. <sup>20</sup>And the herdmen of Gerar did strive with Isaac's shepherds, saying that the water was theirs; and he called the name of the well, Injustice, because they did him injustice. <sup>21</sup>And Isaac removed from thence, and digged another well, and they strove for that also; and he called the name of it, Enmity. <sup>22</sup>And he removed from thence, and digged another well, and for that they strove not; and he called the name of it, Room, and he said, 'For now the LORD hath made room for us, and hath increased us upon the earth'. 

<sup>23</sup>And he went up from thence unto the Well of the Oath. <sup>24</sup>And the LORD appeared unto him that same night, and said, 'I am the God of Abraham thy father; fear not, for I am with thee, and will bless thee, and multiply thy seed for Abraham thy father's sake'. <sup>25</sup>And he builded an altar there, and called upon the name of the LORD, and pitched his tent there; and there Isaac's servants digged a well in the valley of Gerar. <sup>26</sup>And Abimelech came unto him from Gerar, and also Ahuzzath his friend and Phichol the chief captain of his army. <sup>27</sup>And Isaac said unto them, 'Wherefore are ye come to me, seeing ye have hated me, and sent me away from you?' <sup>28</sup>And they said, 'We saw certainly that the LORD was with thee; and we said, “Let there now be an oath betwixt us and thee, and we will make a covenant with thee, <sup>29</sup>that thou wilt do us no hurt, as we have not abhorred thee, according as we have done thee good, and have sent thee forth in peace; and thou art now the blessed of the LORD” '. <sup>30</sup>And he made them a feast, and they did eat and drink. <sup>31</sup>And they rose up in the morning, and sware each to his neighbour, and Isaac sent them forth, and they departed from him in safety. <sup>32</sup>And it came to pass in that same day, that Isaac's servants came and told him concerning the well which they had digged, and said, 'We have found no water'. <sup>33</sup>And he called it, Oath. Therefore he called the name of that city, The Well of the Oath unto this day. 

<sup>34</sup>And Esau was forty years old, and he took to wife Judith the daughter of Beeri the Hittite, and Bashemath the daughter of Elon the Hittite. <sup>35</sup>And they were provoking unto Isaac and to Rebekah.
