---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 27
chapter_order_number: 27
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

<sup>1</sup>And it came to pass after Isaac was old, that his eyes were dimmed, so that he could not see. And he called Esau his elder son, and said unto him, 'My son'. And he said 'Behold, here am I'. <sup>2</sup>And he said, 'Behold, I am waxen old, and I know not the day of my death. <sup>3</sup>Now therefore take thy weapons, both thy quiver and thy bow, and go out into the plain, and hunt me venison, <sup>4</sup>and make me savoury meats such as I love, and bring them to me that I may eat, that my soul may bless thee before I die.'  <sup>5</sup>And Rebekah heard Isaac speak unto Esau his son, and Esau went to the plain to hunt venison for his father. <sup>6</sup>And Rebekah said unto Jacob her younger son, 'Behold, I heard thy father speak unto Esau thy brother saying, <sup>7</sup>“Bring me venison and prepare me savoury meats, that I may eat, and bless thee before the LORD before I die”. <sup>8</sup>Now therefore, my son, hearken unto me as I command thee. <sup>9</sup>And go to the flocks, and take from thence two kids, tender and good, and I will make them meats for thy father, such as he loveth. <sup>10</sup>And thou shalt bring them in to thy father, and he shall eat; that thy father may bless thee before he dieth.'  <sup>11</sup>And Jacob said unto his mother Rebekah, 'Esau my brother is an hairy man, and I am a smooth man. <sup>12</sup>My father peradventure will feel me, and I shall be before him as one contemning, and I shall bring a curse upon me, and not a blessing.' <sup>13</sup>And his mother said unto him, 'Upon me be thy curse; my son; only hearken unto my voice, and go fetch me them'. <sup>14</sup>And he went, and fetched, and brought them to his mother; and his mother made savoury meats, such as his father loved. <sup>15</sup>And Rebekah took the goodly raiment of her elder son Esau, which was with her in the house, and she put it upon Jacob her younger son. <sup>16</sup>And she put the skins of the kids of the goats upon his arms and upon the bare parts of his neck, <sup>17</sup>and she gave the savoury meats and the loaves, which she had prepared, into the hands of her son Jacob. <sup>18</sup>And he brought them in to his father, and said, 'Father'. And he said, 'Behold, here am I; who art thou, child?' <sup>19</sup>And Jacob said unto his father, 'I am Esau thy firstborn; I have done according as thou badest me. Arise; sit and eat of my venison, that thy soul may bless me.' <sup>20</sup>And Isaac said unto his son, 'What is this that thou hast found so quickly, child?'   And he said, 'That which the LORD thy God delivered up before me'. <sup>21</sup>And Isaac said unto Jacob, 'Draw nigh unto me, and I will feel thee, child, whether thou be my son Esau or not'. <sup>22</sup>And Jacob drew nigh unto Isaac his father, and he felt him, and said, 'The voice is Jacob's voice, but the hands are the hands of Esau'. <sup>23</sup>And he discerned him not, because his hands were hairy, as his brother Esau's hands. And he blessed him, <sup>24</sup>and he said, 'Art thou my very son Esau?' And he said, 'I am'. <sup>25</sup>And he said, 'Bring it to me, and I will eat of thy venison, child, that my soul may bless thee'. And he brought it near to him, and he did eat; and he brought him wine, and he drank. <sup>26</sup>And his father Isaac said unto him, 'Draw nigh unto me and kiss me, child'. <sup>27</sup>And he drew nigh, and kissed him; and he smelled the smell of his raiment, and blessed him, and said, “See, the smell of my son is as the smell of a rich field, which the LORD hath blessed. <sup>28</sup>And God give thee of the dew of heaven, and of the fatness of the earth, and abundance of corn and wine. <sup>29</sup>And let nations be subject unto thee, and princes bow down to thee; and be thou lord over thy brother, and thy father's sons shall bow down to thee. Cursed be he that curseth thee, and blessed be he that blesseth thee.' 

<sup>30</sup>And it came to pass, after Isaac had made an end of blessing Jacob his son, it even came to pass when Jacob was gone out from the presence of Isaac his father, that Esau his brother came in from the hunt. <sup>31</sup>And he also had made him savoury meats, and brought them unto his father, and said unto his father, 'Let my father arise and eat of his son's venison, that thy soul may bless me'. <sup>32</sup>And Isaac his father said unto him, 'Who art thou?'  And he said, 'I am thy son, thy firstborn Esau'. <sup>33</sup>And Isaac was astonished with exceeding great astonishment, and said, 'Who then is it that hath procured venison for me and brought it me? And I have eaten of all before thou camest, and I have blessed him, yea, and he shall be blessed.' <sup>34</sup>And it came to pass when Esau heard the words of Isaac his father, that he cried with a great and exceeding bitter cry, and said, 'Bless even me also, O my father'. <sup>35</sup>And he said to him, 'Thy brother came with subtilty, and hath taken away thy blessing'. <sup>36</sup>And he said, 'Rightly was his name called Jacob, for now this second time hath he supplanted me. He took away my birthright, and now hath taken away my blessing.' And Esau said unto his father, 'Hast thou not left a blessing for me, father?'  <sup>37</sup>And Isaac answered and said unto Esau, 'Seeing I have made him thy lord, and have made all his brethren his servants, and with corn and wine have strengthened him, what then shall I do unto thee, child?'  <sup>38</sup>And Esau said unto his father, 'Hast thou but one blessing, father? Bless me, even me also, O my father.' And Isaac was vexed, and Esau cried aloud, and wept. <sup>39</sup>And Isaac his father answered, and said unto him, “Behold, thy dwelling shall be of the fatness of the earth, and of the dew of heaven from above. <sup>40</sup>And by thy sword shalt thou live, and shalt be subject unto thy brother; and it shall come to pass, when thou shalt bring him down, then shalt thou break his yoke from off thy neck.” 

<sup>41</sup>And Esau was wroth with Jacob because of the blessing wherewith his father blessed him, and Esau said in his mind, 'Let the days of mourning for my father draw near, that I may slay my brother Jacob'. <sup>42</sup>But the words of Esau her elder son were told to Rebekah, and she sent and called Jacob her younger son, and said unto him, 'Behold, thy brother Esau threateneth thee to kill thee. <sup>43</sup>Now therefore my child, hearken unto my voice, and arise, and depart thou quickly into Mesopotamia unto Laban my brother in Haran. <sup>44</sup>And dwell thou with him some days, <sup>45</sup>until thy brother's anger and fury turn away from thee, and he forget that which thou hast done to him. Then I will send, and fetch thee from thence, lest it be that I be bereaved of you both in one day.' 

<sup>46</sup>And Rebekah said to Isaac, 'I am weary of my life because of the daughters of the sons of Heth. If Jacob take a wife of the daughters of this land, what good shall my life be to me?'
