---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 29
chapter_order_number: 29
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

<sup>1</sup>And Jacob lifted up his feet, and went into the land of the east unto Laban the son of Bethuel the Syrian, and the brother of Rebekah, Jacob's and Esau's mother. <sup>2</sup>And he looketh, and behold, a well in the plain, and there were there three flocks of sheep resting by it; for out of that well they watered the flocks; but a great stone was at the well's mouth. <sup>3</sup>And thither were all the flocks gathered; and they would roll away the stone from the well's mouth, and water the flocks, and put the stone again upon the well's mouth in its place. <sup>4</sup>And Jacob said unto them, 'Brethren, whence be ye?' And they said, 'Of Haran are we'. <sup>5</sup>And he said unto them, 'Know ye Laban the son of Nahor?' And they said, 'We know him'. <sup>6</sup>And he said unto them, 'Is he well?' And they said, 'He is well'. And behold, Rachel, his daughter, was coming with the sheep. <sup>7</sup>And Jacob said, 'It is yet high day; it is not yet time that the flocks be gathered together. Water ye the flocks, and go and feed them.'  <sup>8</sup>And they said, 'We cannot, until all the shepherds be gathered together, and they roll away the stone from the mouth of the well; then shall we water the flocks'. <sup>9</sup>And while he yet spake with them, Rachel the daughter of Laban came with her father's sheep; for she fed her father's sheep. <sup>10</sup>And it came to pass, when Jacob saw Rachel the daughter of Laban his mother's brother, and the sheep of Laban his mother's brother, that Jacob came and rolled away the stone from the well's mouth, and watered the sheep of Laban his mother's brother. <sup>11</sup>And Jacob kissed Rachel, and cried with a loud voice, and wept. <sup>12</sup>And he told Rachel that he was her father's kinsman and Rebekah's son; and she ran and told her father according to these words. <sup>13</sup>And it came to pass, when Laban heard the name of Jacob his sister's son, that he ran to meet him, and embraced him, and kissed him, and brought him into his house; and he told Laban all these things. <sup>14</sup>And Laban said to him, 'Thou art of my bones and of my flesh'. And he was with him a month of days.

<sup>15</sup>And Laban said unto Jacob, 'Because thou art my kinsman, surely thou shalt not serve me for naught. Tell me, what shall thy wage be?'  <sup>16</sup>Now Laban had two daughters; the name of the elder was Leah, and the name of the younger was Rachel. <sup>17</sup>And Leah's eyes were weak, but Rachel was beautiful in appearance, and exceeding fair in countenance. <sup>18</sup>And Jacob loved Rachel, and said, 'I will serve thee seven years for Rachel thy younger daughter'. <sup>19</sup>And Laban said, 'It is better that I give her to thee, than that I should give her to another man; abide with me'. <sup>20</sup>And Jacob served seven years for Rachel, and they were in his sight but as a few days, for he loved her. <sup>21</sup>And Jacob said unto Laban, 'Give me my wife, for my days are fulfilled, that I may go in unto her'. <sup>22</sup>And Laban gathered together all the men of the place, and made a marriage feast. <sup>23</sup>And it was even, and Laban took Leah his daughter, and brought her in to Jacob, and he went in unto her. <sup>24</sup>And Laban gave unto his daughter Leah Zilpah his maid for a handmaid unto her. <sup>25</sup>And it was morning; and behold, it was Leah. And Jacob said to Laban, 'What is this that thou hast done unto me? Did I not serve with thee for Rachel? And wherefore hast thou beguiled me?' <sup>26</sup>And Laban answered, 'It not so done in our place, to give the younger before the elder. <sup>27</sup>Fulfil then her seven days, and I will give thee her also for thy service which thou shalt do with me yet seven other years.' <sup>28</sup>And Jacob did so, and fulfilled her seven days; and Laban gave him Rachel his daughter to wife. <sup>29</sup>And Laban gave to his daughter Bilhah his handmaid to be a handmaid unto her. <sup>30</sup>And he went in unto Rachel, and he loved Rachel more than Leah, and served with him yet seven other years. 

<sup>31</sup>And when the LORD God saw that Leah was hated, He opened her womb; but Rachel was barren. <sup>32</sup>And Leah conceived and bare a son to Jacob, and she called his name Reuben, saying, 'Because the LORD hath looked upon my humiliation, and hath given me a son, now therefore my husband will love me'. <sup>33</sup>And she conceived again, and bare a second son to Jacob, and said, 'Because the LORD hath heard that I am hated, He hath given me this son also'. And she called his name Simeon. <sup>34</sup>And she conceived again and bare a son, and said, 'In the present time my husband will be with me, for I have borne him three sons'. Therefore she called his name Levi. <sup>35</sup>And she conceived yet again, and bare a son, and she said, 'Now yet again this time will I give thanks unto the LORD'. Therefore she called his name Judah. And she left bearing.
