---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 34
chapter_order_number: 34
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

<sup>1</sup>And Dinah, the daughter of Leah, which she bare unto Jacob, went out to see the daughters of the inhabitants. <sup>2</sup>And Shechem the son of Hammor the Hivite, the chief of the country, saw her and took her and lay with her and humbled her. <sup>3</sup>And he clave unto the soul of Dinah the daughter of Jacob, and he loved the damsel, and spake according to the damsel's heart. <sup>4</sup>And Shechem spake unto his father Hamor, saying, 'Get me this damsel to wife'. <sup>5</sup>And Jacob heard that the son of Hamor had defiled Dinah his daughter. Now his sons were with his cattle in the plain. And Jacob held his peace until they were come. <sup>6</sup>And, the father of Shechem went out unto Jacob to commune with him. <sup>7</sup>And the sons of Jacob came out of the plain, and when they heard it, the men were cut to the quick; and it was very grievous unto them, because the man had wrought a folly in Israel, having lain with Jacob's daughter; and it should not be so. <sup>8</sup>And Hamor communed with them, saying, 'My son Shechem hath chosen with his soul your daughter; give her unto him to wife, <sup>9</sup>and make ye marriages with us. Give your daughters unto us, and take our daughters unto your sons. <sup>10</sup>And dwell in the midst of us; and behold, the land is broad before you; dwell and trade ye therein, and get you possessions therein.' <sup>11</sup>And Shechem said unto her father and unto her brethren, 'Let me find grace in your eyes, and whatsoever ye shall name we will give. <sup>12</sup>Increase the dowry never so much, and I will give according as ye shall say unto me; only ye shall give me the damsel to wife.' <sup>13</sup>And the sons of Jacob answered Shechem and Hamor his father deceitfully, and spake unto them, because they had defiled Dinah their sister. <sup>14</sup>And Simeon and Levi, Dinah's brethren, said unto them, 'We cannot do this thing to give our sister to one that is uncircumcised, for it is a reproach unto us. <sup>15</sup>Only herein will we conform unto you and dwell among you; if ye also will be as we be, in that every male of you be circumcised. <sup>16</sup>And we will give our daughters unto you, and we will take your daughters unto wife, and we will dwell with you, and we will be as one people. <sup>17</sup>But if ye will not hearken unto us to be circumcised, then will we take our daughter, and we will be gone.'  <sup>18</sup>And the words pleased Hamor and Shechem Hamor's son. <sup>19</sup>And the young man deferred not to do the thing, because he cleaved unto Jacob's daughter; and he was the most honourable of all that were in the house of his father. <sup>20</sup>And Hamor and Shechem his son came unto the gate of their city, and communed with the men of their city, saying, <sup>21</sup>'These men are peaceable. Let them with us dwell in the land, and trade therein. And, behold, the land is broad before them; we will take their daughters to us for wives, and we will give them our daughters. <sup>22</sup>Only herein will the men conform unto us for to dwell with us, to be one people, if every male among us be circumcised, as they are circumcised. <sup>23</sup>And shall not their cattle and their herds and their substance be ours?  Only herein let us conform unto them, and they will dwell with us.' <sup>24</sup>And unto Hamor and unto Shechem his son hearkened all that went out of the gate of his city; and they were circumcised in the flesh of their foreskin, every male. <sup>25</sup>And it came to pass on the third day, when they were in pain, that the two sons of Jacob, Simeon and Levi, Dinah's brethren, took each man his sword, and came upon the city safely, and slew every male. <sup>26</sup>And they slew Hamor and Shechem his son with the edge of the sword, and took Dinah out of Shechem's house, and went out. <sup>27</sup>And the sons of Jacob came upon the slain, and spoiled the city, wherein they had defiled their sister. <sup>28</sup>And they took their sheep, and their oxen, and their asses, and all things whatsoever that were in the city, and whatsoever things were in the field. <sup>29</sup>And all their persons,  and  all  their  store,  and  their  wives  took  they  captive,  and  spoiled  even whatsoever things were in the city, and whatsoever things were in the houses. <sup>30</sup>And Jacob said to Simeon and Levi, 'Ye have made me hateful, so that I am evil unto all the inhabitants of the land, among the Canaanites and the Perizzites. But I am few in number, and they shall gather themselves together against me, and cut me to pieces, and I shall be utterly destroyed, and my house.'  <sup>31</sup>Nevertheless they said, 'But shall they treat our sister as a harlot?
