---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 36
chapter_order_number: 36
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

<sup>1</sup>And these are the generations of Esau; this same is Edom. <sup>2</sup>And Esau took unto himself wives of the daughters of the Canaanites; Adah the daughter of Elon the Hittite, and Aholibamah the daughter of Anah the son of Zibeon the Hivite, <sup>3</sup>and Bashemath Ishmael's daughter, the sister of Nebajoth. <sup>4</sup>And Adah bare to him Eliphaz, and Bashemath bare Reuel. <sup>5</sup>And Aholibamah bare Jeush, and Jaalam, and Korah; these are the sons of Esau, which were born unto him in the land of Canaan. <sup>6</sup>And Esau took his wives, and his sons and his daughters, and all the persons of his house, and all his substance, and all his cattle, and all that he had got, and all things whatsoever he had got in the land of Canaan; and Esau went forth from the land of Canaan from the face of his brother Jacob. <sup>7</sup>For their substance was too great for them to dwell together, and the land of their sojourning could not bear them because of the multitude of their possessions. <sup>8</sup>And Esau dwelt in mount Seir; Esau, he is Edom.

<sup>9</sup>And these are the generations of Esau the father of Edom in the mount Seir. <sup>10</sup>And these are the names of Esau's sons; Eliphaz the son of Adah the wife of Esau, and Reuel the son of Bashemath the wife of Esau. <sup>11</sup>And the sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, Gatam, and Kenaz. <sup>12</sup>And Timna was concubine to Eliphaz Esau's son, and she bare to Eliphaz Amalek. These are the sons of Adah the wife of Esau. <sup>13</sup>And these are the sons of Reuel; Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah. These were the sons of Bashemath Esau's wife. <sup>14</sup>And these are the sons of Aholibamah, the daughter of Anah, the son of Zibeon, Esau's wife; and she bare to Esau Jeush, and Jaalam, and Korah. <sup>15</sup>These are the chiefs of the son of Esau, even the sons of Eliphaz the firstborn son of Esau; prince Teman, prince Omar, prince Zepho, prince Kenaz, <sup>16</sup>prince Korah, prince Gatam, prince Amalek. These are the chiefs of Eliphaz in the land of Edom; these are the sons of Adah. <sup>17</sup>And these are the sons of Reuel Esau's son; prince Nahath, prince Zerah, prince Shammah, prince Mizzah. These are the chiefs of Reuel, in the land of Edom; these are the sons of Bashemath Esau's wife. <sup>18</sup>And these are the sons of Aholibamah Esau's wife; prince Jeush, prince Jaalam, prince Korah. These are the chiefs of Aholibamah the daughter of Anah, Esau's wife. <sup>19</sup>These are the sons of Esau, and these are the princes; these are the sons of Edom. 

<sup>20</sup>And these are the sons of Seir the Horite, who inhabited the land; Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, <sup>21</sup>and Dishon, and Ezer, and Dishan. These are the chiefs of the Horite, the son of Seir, in the land of Edom. <sup>22</sup>And the sons of Lotan were Hori, and Hemam; and Lotan's sister was Timna. <sup>23</sup>And these are the sons of Shobal; Alvan, and Manahath, and Ebal, and Shepho, and Onam. <sup>24</sup>And these are the sons of Zibeon; Ajah, and Anah; this is the Anah that found Jamin in the wilderness, when he tended the beasts of Zibeon his father. <sup>25</sup>And these are the sons of Anah; Dishon, and Aholibamah was the daughter of Anah. <sup>26</sup>And these are the sons of Dishon; Hemdan, and Eshban, and Ithran, and Cheran. <sup>27</sup>And these are the sons of Ezer; Bilhan, and Zaavan, and Akan. <sup>28</sup>And these are the sons of Dishan; Uz, and Aran. <sup>29</sup>And these are the princes of Hori; prince Lotan, prince Shobal, prince Zibeon, prince Anah, <sup>30</sup>prince Dishon, prince Ezer, prince Dishan. These are the chiefs of Hori, in their principalities in the land of Edom. 

<sup>31</sup>And these are the kings which reigned in Edom before there reigned a king in Israel. <sup>32</sup>And Bela the son of Beor reigned in Edom, and the name of his city was Dinhabah. <sup>33</sup>And Bela died, and Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his stead. <sup>34</sup>And Jobab died, and Husham of the land of the Temanites reigned in his stead. <sup>35</sup>And Husham died, and Hadad the son of Bedad, who cut off Midian in the plain of Moab, reigned in his stead; and the name of his city was Avith. <sup>36</sup>And Hadad died, and Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his stead. <sup>37</sup>And Samlah died, and Saul of Rehoboth by the river reigned in his stead. <sup>38</sup>And Saul died, and Baal­hanan the son of Achbor reigned in his stead. <sup>39</sup>And Baal­hanan the son of Achbor died, and Hadar the son of Bedad reigned in his stead; and the name of his city was Pau; and his wife's name was Meheaebel, the daughter of Matred the son of Mezahab.

<sup>40</sup>These are the names of the princes of Esau, in their tribes, according to their place, in their countries, and in their nations; prince Timnah, prince Alvah, prince Jetheth, <sup>41</sup>prince  Aholibamah,  prince  Elahs,  prince  Pinon, <sup>42</sup>prince  Kenaz,  prince Teman, prince Mibzar, <sup>43</sup>prince Magdiel, prince Iram; these be the princes of Edom, in their habitations in the land of their possession; this is Esau, the father of Edom.
