---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 37
chapter_order_number: 37
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

<sup>1</sup>And Jacob dwelt in the land wherein his father had sojourned, in the land of Canaan. <sup>2</sup>And these are the generations of Jacob. Now Joseph was seventeen years old, feeding the sheep of his father with his brethren, being young, with the sons of Bilhah and with the sons of Zilpah, his father's wives, and Joseph brought unto Israel their father their evil reproach. <sup>3</sup>Now Jacob loved Joseph more than all his sons, because he was to him the son of his old age; and he made him a coat of many colours. <sup>4</sup>And his brethren, seeing that their father loved him more than all his children, hated him, and could not speak any thing peaceably unto him. 

<sup>5</sup>And Joseph dreamed a dream, and he told it his brethren. <sup>6</sup>And he said unto them, 'Hear this dream which I have dreamed. <sup>7</sup>I thought that ye were binding sheaves in the midst of the field, and my sheaf arose, and was set upright; and your sheaves turned about, and made obeisance to my sheaf.' <sup>8</sup>And his brethren said to him, 'Shalt thou indeed reign over us, or shalt thou indeed have dominion over us?'  And they hated him yet the more for his dreams, and for his words. <sup>9</sup>And he saw yet another dream, and told it to his father, and to his brethren, and said, 'Behold, I have dreamed a dream more; as it were the sun and the moon and the eleven stars made obeisance to me'. <sup>10</sup>And his father rebuked him, and said unto him, 'What is this dream that thou hast dreamed? Shall both I and thy mother and thy brethren indeed come and bow down ourselves before thee to the earth?' <sup>11</sup>And his brethren were jealous of him; but his father observed the saying. 

<sup>12</sup>And his brethren went to feed their father's sheep, to Shechem. <sup>13</sup>And Israel said unto Joseph, 'Do not thy brethren feed their flock in Shechem? Come; I will send thee unto them.' And he said to him, 'Here am I'. <sup>14</sup>And Israel said to him, 'Go and see whether thy brethren and the sheep are well, and bring me word'. So he sent him out of the vale of Hebron, and he came to Shechem. <sup>15</sup>And a man found him wandering in the field, and the man asked him, saying, 'What seekest thou?' <sup>16</sup>And he said, 'I seek my brethren; tell me where they feed their flocks'. <sup>17</sup>And the man said to him, 'They are departed hence, for I heard them say, “Let us go to Dothan” '. And Joseph went after his brethren, and found them in Dothan. <sup>18</sup>And they saw him afar off, even before he came near unto them, and they wickedly took counsel to slay him. <sup>19</sup>And each said to his brother, 'Behold, that dreamer cometh. <sup>20</sup>Come now, therefore; let us slay him and cast him into one of the pits, and we will say, “An evil wild beast hath devoured him”; and we shall see what will become of his dreams.'  <sup>21</sup>And Reuben heard it, and he delivered him out of their hands, and said, 'We shall not smite his life'. <sup>22</sup>And Reuben said unto them, 'Shed no blood; cast him into one of these pits that are in the wilderness, but lay not your hand upon him'; that he might rid him out of their hands, and restore him to his father again. <sup>23</sup>And it came to pass, when Joseph was come unto his brethren, that they stripped Joseph out of his coat of many colours that was on him; <sup>24</sup>and they took him, and cast him into the pit; and the pit was empty, it had no water in it.

<sup>25</sup>And they sat down to eat bread, and they lifted up their eyes and looked, and behold, Ishmaelite travellers came from Gilead, and their camels were heavy laden with spicery and resin and myrrh, and they went to bring them into Egypt. <sup>26</sup>And Judah said unto his brethren, 'What profit is it if we slay our brother and conceal his blood? <sup>27</sup>Come, let us sell him to these Ishmaelites, but let not our hand be upon him, for he is our brother and our flesh.' And his brethren hearkened. <sup>28</sup>And there passed by the men, Midianite merchantmen, and they drew and lifted up Joseph out of the pit, and sold Joseph to the Midianites for twenty pieces of gold; and they brought Joseph down into Egypt. <sup>29</sup>And Reuben returned unto the pit, and seeth not Joseph in the pit, and he rent his clothes. <sup>30</sup>And he returned unto his brethren, and said, 'The child is not, and I, whither shall I yet go?' 

<sup>31</sup>And they took Joseph's coat, and killed a kid of the goats, and stained the coat with the blood. <sup>32</sup>And they sent the coat of many colours, and they brought it to their father, and said, 'This have we found; know whether it be thy son's coat or no'. <sup>33</sup>And he knew it, and said, 'It is my son's coat; an evil wild beast hath devoured him; a wild beast hath carried off Joseph'. <sup>34</sup>And Jacob rent his clothes, and put sackcloth upon his loins, and mourned for his son many days. <sup>35</sup>And all his sons and all his daughters gathered themselves together, and came to comfort him; but he would not be comforted, and he said, 'I will go down into Hades unto my son mourning'. And his father wept for him. <sup>36</sup>And the Midianites sold Joseph into Egypt unto Potiphar, the eunuch of Pharaoh, the chief cook.
