---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 42
chapter_order_number: 42
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

<sup>1</sup>And when Jacob saw that there was a sale in Egypt, he said unto his sons, 'Why are ye idle?  <sup>2</sup>Behold, I have heard that there is corn in Egypt. Get you down thither, and buy for us a little food, that we may live, and not die.' <sup>3</sup>And Joseph's ten brethren went down to buy corn out of Egypt. <sup>4</sup>But Benjamin, Joseph's brother, he sent not with his brethren, for he said, 'Lest peradventure sickness befall him'.

<sup>5</sup>And the sons of Israel came to buy with those that came; for the famine was in the land of Canaan. <sup>6</sup>And Joseph was the governor over the land; he sold to all the people of the land. And Joseph's brethren came, and bowed down themselves unto him with their faces to the earth. <sup>7</sup>And when Joseph saw his brethren, he knew them, and made himself strange unto them, and spake roughly unto them; and he said unto them, 'Whence come ye?' And they said, 'From the land of Canaan to buy food'. <sup>8</sup>And Joseph knew his brethren, but they knew not him. <sup>9</sup>And Joseph remembered his dream which he saw, and said unto them, 'Ye are spies; to observe the ways of the land ye are come'. <sup>10</sup>But they said, 'Nay, lord; to buy food are thy servants come. <sup>11</sup>We are all one man's sons; we are men of peace, thy servants are no spies.' <sup>12</sup>And he said unto them, 'Nay, but to see the ways of the land ye are come'. <sup>13</sup>And they said, 'We thy servants are twelve brethren in the land of Canaan; and behold, the youngest is this day with our father, but the other is not'. <sup>14</sup>And Joseph said unto them, 'That is it which I spake unto you, saying, “Ye are spies”. <sup>15</sup>Herein ye shall be manifest; by the health of Pharaoh ye shall not depart hence, except your youngest brother come hither. <sup>16</sup>Send one of you, and fetch your brother, and go ye to prison until your words be manifest, whether ye speak the truth or not; but if not, by the health of Pharaoh, verily ye are spies.' <sup>17</sup>And he put them into ward three days.

<sup>18</sup>And he said unto them the third day, 'This do, and ye shall live; for I fear God. <sup>19</sup>If ye be men of peace, let one of your brethren be confined in the prison; but go ye, carry back the purchase of your gift of corn. <sup>20</sup>And bring your younger brother unto me, and your words shall be believed; but if not, ye shall die.' And they did so. <sup>21</sup>And each said unto his brother, 'Yea, verily, for we be at fault concerning our brother, when we regarded not the anguish of his soul when he besought us and we hearkened not to him; and therefore is this affliction come upon us'. <sup>22</sup>And Reuben answered them, saying, 'Spake I not unto you, saying, “Do not hurt the boy”, and ye heard me not? And, behold, his blood is required.' <sup>23</sup>But they knew not that Joseph heard them, for there was an interpreter between them. <sup>24</sup>And Joseph turned himself about from them, and wept, and came to them again, and communed with them, and took from them Simeon, and bound him before them. <sup>25</sup>Then Joseph commanded to fill their vessels with corn, and to restore every man's money into his sack, and to give them provision for the way; and thus was it done unto them. <sup>26</sup>And they laded the asses with corn, and departed thence. <sup>27</sup>And one opened his sack to give his ass provender at the place where they rested, and espied his bundle of money; for it was in his sack's mouth. <sup>28</sup>And he said unto his brethren, 'My money is restored to me, and lo, this is even in my sack'. And their heart was smitten with wonder, and they were troubled, saying one to another, 'What is this that God hath done unto us? 

<sup>29</sup>And they came unto Jacob their father unto the land of Canaan, and told him all that befell unto them, saying, <sup>30</sup>'The man, the lord of the land, spake roughly to us and put us in prison for spies of the country. <sup>31</sup>And we said unto him, “We are men of peace; we are not spies. <sup>32</sup>We be twelve brethren, sons of our father; one is not, and the youngest is this day with our father in the land of Canaan.” <sup>33</sup>And the man, the lord of the land, said unto us, “Hereby shall I know that ye are men of peace; leave one brother here with me, and take the corn ye have purchased for your household, and be gone. <sup>34</sup>And bring your younger brother unto me; then shall I know that you are no spies, but that ye are men of peace, and I will restore to you your brother, and ye shall traffic in the land.” ' <sup>35</sup>And it came to pass as they emptied their sacks, that each man's bundle of money was in his sack; and both they and their father saw their bundles of money, and they were afraid. <sup>36</sup>And Jacob their father said unto them, 'Me have ye bereaved of my children . Joseph is not, Simeon is not, and will ye take Benjamin away?  All these things are come upon me.' <sup>37</sup>And Reuben spake unto his father, saying, 'Slay my two sons, if I bring him not to thee; give him into my hand, and I will bring him to thee again'. <sup>38</sup>But he said, 'My son shall not go down with you, for his brother is dead and he only is left; and suppose it shall come to pass that he is afflicted by the way which ye go, then shall ye bring down mine old age with sorrow unto Hades'. <sup>39</sup>But the famine prevailed in the land.
