---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 43
chapter_order_number: 43
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

<sup>1</sup>And it came to pass, when they had made an end of eating up the corn which they had brought out of Egypt, their father said unto them, 'Go again, buy us a little food'. <sup>2</sup>And Judah spake unto him, saying, 'The man did solemnly protest unto us, saying, “Ye shall not see my face except your younger brother be with you”. <sup>3</sup>If then thou send our brother with us, we will go down and buy thee food; <sup>4</sup>but if thou send not our brother with us, we will not go. For the man spake unto us, saying, “Ye shall not see my face except your younger brother be with you”.'  <sup>5</sup>And Israel said, 'Wherefore dealt ye so ill with me, inasmuch as ye told the man that ye had a brother?' <sup>6</sup>And they said, 'The man asked us straitly of our kindred also, saying, “Is your father yet alive, and have ye a brother?” And we told him according to this question; could we know that he would say unto us, “Bring your brother?” '  <sup>7</sup>And Judah said unto Israel, his father, 'Send the lad with me; and we will arise and go, that we may live, and not die, both we, and thou and our store. <sup>8</sup>And I will be surety for him; of my hand do thou require him. If I bring him not unto thee and set him before thee, I shall be guilty toward thee for ever. <sup>9</sup>For had we not lingered, now we had returned twice.' <sup>10</sup>And their father Israel said unto them, 'If it be so, do this; take of the fruits of the land in your vessels, and carry down the man presents of gum and honey, spices and frankincense, and myrrh and turpentine and walnuts. <sup>11</sup>And take double money in your hands; and the  money  that  was  brought  again  in  your  sacks,  carry  it  back  with  you,  lest peradventure it be an oversight. <sup>12</sup>Take also your brother; and arise, go down unto the man. <sup>13</sup>And my God give you favour before the man, and send away your other brother and Benjamin; for according as I have been bereaved of children, I am bereaved of children.'

<sup>14</sup>And the men took these presents, and the double money, and took in their hand also Benjamin; and rose up, and went down to Egypt, and stood before Joseph. <sup>15</sup>And Joseph saw them, and his brother Benjamin, born of the same mother, and he said to the steward of his house, 'Bring the men into the house, and slay beasts and make ready, for the men shall eat bread with me at noon'. <sup>16</sup>And the man did as Joseph said, and he brought the men into Joseph's house. <sup>17</sup>And when the men perceived that they were brought in to Joseph's house, they said, 'Because of the money that was returned in our sacks at the first time are we brought in; even to inform against us falsely, and lay it to our charge, and take us for bondmen, and our asses'. <sup>18</sup>And they came near to the man who was over Joseph's house, and they communed with him at the porch of the house, <sup>19</sup>saying, 'We pray thee, lord; we came down at the first time to buy food. <sup>20</sup>And it came to pass when we came to unlade and opened our sacks, there was also this money of each man in his sack; we have now brought back our money by weight in our hands. <sup>21</sup>And other money have we brought with us, to buy food. We cannot tell who put the money in our sacks.' <sup>22</sup>And he said unto them, 'Mercy be with you, fear not; your God and the God of your fathers hath given you treasures in your sacks, and I have your good money in full.' And he brought Simeon out unto them, <sup>23</sup>and he brought water to wash their feet, and gave their asses provender. <sup>24</sup>And they made ready their presents until Joseph came at noon, for they heard that they should dine there.

<sup>25</sup>And Joseph entered into the house, and they brought him the presents which they had in their hand into the house, and they bowed themselves to him with their face to the earth. <sup>26</sup>And he asked them, 'How are ye?' And he said unto them, 'Is your father well, the old man of whom ye spake?  Is he yet alive?'  <sup>27</sup>And they said, 'Thy servant our father is well; he is yet alive'. And he said, 'Blessed be that man unto God', and they bowed down, and made him obeisance. <sup>28</sup>And Joseph lifted up his eyes, and saw his brother Benjamin, born of the same mother, and said, 'Is this your younger brother whom ye spake of bringing unto me?' And he said, 'God have mercy upon thee, my son'. <sup>29</sup>And Joseph was troubled, for his bowels did yearn upon his brother; and he sought to weep, and he entered into his chamber and wept there. <sup>30</sup>And he washed his face, and came out, and constrained himself, and said, 'Set on bread'. <sup>31</sup>And they set on for him by himself, and for them by themselves, and for the Egyptians, which did eat with him, by themselves; because the Egyptians might not eat bread with the Hebrews; for that is an abomination unto the Egyptians. <sup>32</sup>And they sat before him, the firstborn according to his seniority, and the youngest according to his youth; and the men marvelled every one at his brother. <sup>33</sup>And they took messes from him unto themselves, but Benjamin's mess was magnified beyond the portions of all five times in comparison to theirs. And they drank, and were merry with him.
