---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 45
chapter_order_number: 45
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

<sup>1</sup>And Joseph could not refrain himself when all were standing by him, but he said, 'Send every man away from me'. And there stood no man near Joseph, while he made himself known unto his brethren. <sup>2</sup>And he loosed his voice with weeping, and all the Egyptians heard, and it was come to be heard in the house of Pharaoh. <sup>3</sup>And Joseph said unto his brethren, 'I am Joseph; doth my father yet live?' And his brethren could not answer him, for they were troubled. <sup>4</sup>And Joseph said unto his brethren, 'Come near to me'. And they came near. And he said, 'I am Joseph your brother, whom ye sold into Egypt. <sup>5</sup>Now therefore be not grieved, and let it not seem hard to you that ye sold me hither, for God did send me before you to preserve life. <sup>6</sup>For this second year there is famine in the land, and yet there are five years in the which there shall neither be plowing nor harvest. <sup>7</sup>For God sent me before you that there might be left unto you a remnant in the earth, even to nourish a great posterity for you. <sup>8</sup>Now therefore ye did not send me hither, but God; and He hath made me as a father to Pharaoh, and lord of all his house, and a ruler of all the land of Egypt. <sup>9</sup>Haste ye, therefore, and go up to my father, and say unto him, “These things saith thy son Joseph, 'God hath made me lord of all the land of Egypt; come down therefore unto me and tarry not. <sup>10</sup>And thou shalt dwell in the land of Goshen of Arabia, and thou shalt be near unto me, thou and thy sons, and thy son's sons, and thy sheep and thine oxen, and whatsoever things are thine. <sup>11</sup>And there will I nourish thee, for the famine is yet for five years, lest thou and thy sons and thy substance be consumed.' ” <sup>12</sup>Behold, your eyes see, and the eyes of my brother Benjamin, that it is my mouth that speaketh unto you. <sup>13</sup>Therefore tell unto my father of all my glory in Egypt, and all the things that ye have seen, and haste and bring down my father hither.' <sup>14</sup>And he fell upon his brother Benjamin's neck, and wept upon him, and Benjamin wept upon his neck. <sup>15</sup>And he kissed all his brethren, and wept upon them, and after these things his brethren talked with him.

<sup>16</sup>And the report was carried into Pharaoh's house, saying, 'Joseph's brethren are come'; and Pharaoh was glad, and his household. <sup>17</sup>And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, 'Say unto thy brethren, “This do ye; lade your wagons and get you into the land of Canaan, <sup>18</sup>and take up your father and your substance and come unto me, and I will give you of all the good of Egypt, and ye shall eat the marrow of the land”. <sup>19</sup>And do thou charge them thus; that they take for them wagons out of the land of Egypt for your little ones and for your wives, and take up your father, and come. <sup>20</sup>Also be not sparing in regard to your stuff, for all the good of Egypt shall be yours.' <sup>21</sup>And the sons of Israel did so, and Joseph gave them wagons according to the words that were spoken by Pharaoh the king, and gave them provision for the journey. <sup>22</sup>And to all of them he gave two changes of raiment, but to Benjamin he gave three hundred pieces of silver and five changes of raiment. <sup>23</sup>And to his father he sent at the same rate, and ten asses bearing of all the good things of Egypt, and ten asses bearing bread for his father for the journey. <sup>24</sup>So he sent his brethren away, and they departed, and he said unto them, 'Be ye not angry by the way'.

<sup>25</sup>And they went up out of Egypt, and came into the land of Canaan unto Jacob their father. <sup>26</sup>And they told him, saying, 'Thy son Joseph is alive, and he is governor over all the land of Egypt'. And Jacob's mind was astonished, for he believed them not. <sup>27</sup>But they told him all the words of Joseph, whatsoever he had said unto them. And when he saw the wagons, which Joseph had sent to take him up, the spirit of Jacob their father revived. <sup>28</sup>And Israel said, 'It is a great thing for me if Joseph my son is yet alive; I will go and see him before I die'.
