---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 50
chapter_order_number: 50
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

<sup>1</sup>And Joseph fell upon his father's face, and wept upon him, and kissed him. <sup>2</sup>And Joseph commanded his servants the embalmers to embalm his father, and the embalmers embalmed Israel. <sup>3</sup>And they fulfilled forty days for him, for so are numbered the days of embalming; and Egypt mourned for him threescore and ten days.

<sup>4</sup>And when the days of mourning were past, Joseph spake unto the princes of Pharaoh, saying, 'If I have found favour in your eyes, speak concerning me in the ears of Pharaoh, saying, <sup>5</sup>“My father made me swear, saying, 'In the sepulchre which I dug for me in the land of Canaan there shalt thou bury me” '. Now therefore I will go up and bury my father, and come again.'  <sup>6</sup>And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, 'Go up, bury thy father, according as he made thee swear'. <sup>7</sup>And Joseph went up to bury his father, and with him went up all the servants of Pharaoh, and the elders of his house, and all the elders of the land of Egypt, <sup>8</sup>and all the house of Joseph and his brethren, and his father's house, and his kindred; and the sheep and the oxen they left behind in the land of Goshen. <sup>9</sup>And there went up with him also both chariots and horsemen, and there was a very great company. <sup>10</sup>And they came to the threshing­floor of Atad, which is beyond Jordan, and there they bewailed him with a great and very sore lamentation, and he made a mourning for his father seven days. <sup>11</sup>And the inhabitants of the land of Canaan saw the mourning at the floor of Atad, and they said, 'This is a great mourning to the Egyptians; wherefore he called the name of it, The Mourning of Egypt, which is beyond Jordan. <sup>12</sup>And thus his sons did unto him. <sup>13</sup>So his sons carried him up into the land of Canaan and buried him in the double cave, which cave Abraham bought for possession of a burying­place of Ephron the Hittite, before Mamre. <sup>14</sup>And Joseph returned into Egypt, he and his brethren, and those that went up with him to bury his father.

<sup>15</sup>And when Joseph's brethren saw that their father was dead they said, 'Joseph may peradventure remember evil against us and requite us all the evil which we shewed him'. <sup>16</sup>And they came unto Joseph, and said, 'Thy father did make us swear before his death, saying, <sup>17</sup>“Thus say ye unto Joseph, 'Forgive them their injustice and their sin, forasmuch as they did unto thee evil' ”. And now forgive the injustice of the servants of the God of thy father.' And Joseph wept while they spake unto him. <sup>18</sup>And they came unto him and said, 'We these here be thy servants'. <sup>19</sup>And Joseph said unto them, 'Fear not, for I am of God. <sup>20</sup>Ye took counsel against me for evil, but God took counsel for me for good, that it might be as it is this day, and that much people might be fed.' <sup>21</sup>And he said unto them, 'Fear not; I will sustain you and your families'; and he comforted them, and spake kindly unto them.

<sup>22</sup>And Joseph dwelt in Egypt, he and his brethren, and all his father's house, and Joseph lived an hundred and ten years. <sup>23</sup>And Joseph saw Ephraim's children of the third generation; the sons also of Machir, the son of Manasseh, were born upon Joseph's thighs. <sup>24</sup>And Joseph spake unto his brethren, saying, 'I die, and God will surely visit you, and bring you out of this land unto the land, concerning which God sware to our fathers Abraham, Isaac and Jacob'. <sup>25</sup>And Joseph made the sons of Israel swear, saying, 'In the time of the visitation wherewith God shall visit you, then shall ye carry up my bones from hence with ye'. <sup>26</sup>And Joseph died, being an hundred and ten years old, and they buried his body and put him in a coffin in Egypt. 
