---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 1
chapter_order_number: 01
total_chapters: 27
book_short_name: Leviticus
book_link_name: Leviticus
layout: chapter
---
CHAPTER <sup>1</sup>
And  the  LORD  called  unto  Moses  again,  and  spake  unto  him  out  of  the
tabernacle of witness, saying, <sup>2</sup>'Speak unto the children of Israel, and thou shalt say
unto them, “If any man of you bring gifts unto the LORD, ye shall bring your gifts of the
cattle, and of the oxen, and of the sheep. <sup>3</sup>If his offering be a whole burnt­offering, he
shall bring a male without blemish of the herd unto the door of the tabernacle of
witness; he shall bring it as acceptable before the LORD. <sup>4</sup>And he shall put his hand
upon the head of the burnt offering; a thing acceptable unto him to make atonement for
him. <sup>5</sup>And they shall kill the calf before the LORD; and the sons of Aaron the priests
shall bring the blood and pour the blood round about upon the altar that is by the
doors of the tabernacle of witness. <sup>6</sup>And having flayed the whole burnt­offering, they
shall divide it by its limbs; <sup>7</sup>and the sons of Aaron the priests shall put fire upon the
altar, and pile wood upon the fire. <sup>8</sup>And the sons of Aaron the priests shall pile the
divided parts, and the head, and the fat, upon the wood of the fire which is upon the
altar. <sup>9</sup>But the inwards and the feet they shall wash with water; and the priests shall
put all on the altar; it is a burnt offering, a sacrifice, a smell of a sweet savour unto the
LORD.
<sup>10</sup>' “And if his gift unto the LORD be of the sheep, or of the lambs, or of the kids,
for whole burnt­offerings, he shall bring it a male without blemish, and he shall lay his
hand upon its head. <sup>11</sup>And they shall kill it by the side of the altar northward before the
LORD; and the sons of Aaron the priests shall pour its blood round about upon the
altar. <sup>12</sup>And they shall divide it by its limbs, and its head, and its fat, and the priest
shall pile them up on the wood that is on the fire upon the altar. <sup>13</sup>And they shall wash
the inwards and the feet with water; and the priest shall bring all, and put them upon
the altar; it is a burnt offering, a sacrifice, a smell of a sweet savour unto the LORD.
<sup>14</sup>' “And if he bring his gift, a burnt offering to the LORD, of fowls, then he shall
bring his gift of turtledoves, or of pigeons. <sup>15</sup>And the priest shall bring it unto the altar,
and wring off its head, and burn it on the altar. And the priest shall put it upon the
altar, and shall wring out the blood at the bottom of the altar. <sup>16</sup>And he shall pluck
away the crop with the feathers, and cast it by the altar on the east part, to the place of
the ashes. <sup>17</sup>And he shall break it off from the wings, and shall not divide it asunder.
And the priest shall put it upon the altar, upon the wood that is upon the fire; it is a
burnt offering, a sacrifice, a smell of a sweet savour unto the LORD.