---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 2
chapter_order_number: 02
total_chapters: 27
book_short_name: Leviticus
book_link_name: Leviticus
layout: chapter
---
CHAPTER <sup>2</sup>
'And if a soul bring a gift, a sacrifice unto the LORD, his gift shall be of fine
flour; and he shall pour oil upon it, and put frankincense thereon; it is a sacrifice. <sup>2</sup>And
he shall bring it to the sons of Aaron the priests, and when he hath taken thereout a
handful of the fine flour with the oil, and all the frankincense thereof, then the priest<sup>96</sup>shall put the memorial of it upon the altar to be a sacrifice, a smell of a sweet savour
unto the LORD. <sup>3</sup>And the remnant of the sacrifice shall be for Aaron and his sons, a
most holy portion of the sacrifices of the LORD. <sup>4</sup>And if he bring as a gift a sacrifice
baked in the oven, a gift unto the LORD of fine flour, it shall be unleavened bread of fine
flour kneaded with oil, and unleavened cakes anointed with oil. <sup>5</sup>And if thy gift be a
sacrifice out of a pan, it is fine flour, mingled with oil, unleavened. <sup>6</sup>And thou shalt part
them in pieces, and pour oil thereon; it is a sacrifice unto the LORD. <sup>7</sup>And if thy gift be
a sacrifice out of the hearth, it shall be made of fine flour with oil. <sup>8</sup>And he shall offer
the sacrifice which he shall make of these things unto the LORD, and shall bring it unto
the priest, and he shall come nigh unto the altar. <sup>9</sup>And the priest shall take from the
sacrifice a memorial thereof, and the priest shall put it upon the altar, a burnt offering,
a smell of a sweet savour unto the LORD. <sup>10</sup>And that which is left of the sacrifice shall
be for Aaron and his sons, most holy of the burnt offerings of the LORD.
<sup>11</sup>'Ye shall not leaven any sacrifice which ye shall bring unto the LORD; for any
leaven or any honey ye shall not bring of it to offer a gift unto the LORD. <sup>12</sup>Ye shall
bring them in the way of fruits unto the LORD; but they shall not be offered upon the
altar for a smell of a sweet savour unto the LORD. <sup>13</sup>And every gift of your sacrifice
shall be seasoned with salt; omit not the salt of the covenant of the LORD from your
sacrifices; upon every gift of yours shall ye offer salt unto the LORD your God. <sup>14</sup>And if
thou offer a sacrifice of first­fruits unto the LORD, of new corns ground and roasted for
the LORD; thus shalt thou bring the sacrifice of the first­fruits. <sup>15</sup>And thou shalt pour
oil upon it, and put frankincense thereon; it is a sacrifice. <sup>16</sup>And the priest shall offer
the memorial of it from the corns, with the oil and all the frankincense thereof; it is a
burnt offering unto the LORD.