---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 3
chapter_order_number: 03
total_chapters: 27
book_short_name: Leviticus
book_link_name: Leviticus
layout: chapter
---
CHAPTER <sup>3</sup>
'And if his gift unto the LORD be a peace­offering, if he bring it of the cattle,
whether it be a male or female, he shall bring it without blemish before the LORD. <sup>2</sup>And
he shall lay his hands upon the head of the gift, and kill it before the LORD at the doors
of the tabernacle of witness. And the sons of Aaron the priests shall pour the blood
upon the altar of whole burnt­offerings round about. <sup>3</sup>And they shall bring of the
peace­offering a burnt offering unto the LORD. The fat that covereth the inwards, and
all the fat that is upon the inwards <sup>4</sup>and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them at
the flanks, and the caul above the liver with the kidneys, it shall he take away. <sup>5</sup>And
the sons of Aaron the priests shall offer them on the altar, upon the whole burnt­
offering, upon the wood that is on the fire upon the altar; it is a burnt offering, a smell
of a sweet savour unto the LORD. 
<sup>6</sup>'And if his gift be of the sheep, a peace­offering unto the LORD, male or female,
he shall bring it without blemish. <sup>7</sup>If he bring a lamb for his gift, he shall bring it before
the LORD, <sup>8</sup>and he shall lay his hands upon the head of his offering, and kill it at the
doors of the tabernacle of witness. And the sons of Aaron the priests shall pour out the
blood round about upon the altar. <sup>9</sup>And he shall bring of the peace­offering a burnt
offering unto the LORD; the fat thereof, and the rump without blemish, them shall he
take away with the loins. And when he hath taken away all the fat that covereth the
inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards <sup>10</sup>and both the kidneys, and the fat
that is upon them, and that which is by the flanks, and the caul that is upon the liver
with the kidneys, <sup>11</sup>the priest shall offer these upon the altar; a sacrifice of a sweet
savour, a burnt offering unto the LORD. 
<sup>12</sup>'And if the offering be of the goats, then he shall bring it before the LORD.
<sup>13</sup>And he shall lay his hands upon the head of it, and they shall kill it before the LORD,
by the doors of the tabernacle of witness, and the sons of Aaron the priests shall pour<sup>97</sup>the blood upon the altar round about. <sup>14</sup>And he shall offer thereof a burnt offering unto
the LORD, even the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the
inwards. <sup>15</sup>And both the kidneys, and all the fat that is upon them, which is by the
flanks, and the caul of the liver, and the kidneys, them shall he take away. <sup>16</sup>And the
priest shall offer it upon the altar, a burnt offering, a smell of a sweet savour unto the
LORD; all the fat is the LORD's. <sup>17</sup>It shall be  a perpetual statute throughout your
generations, in all your dwellings; ye shall eat no fat and no blood.' 