---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 4
chapter_order_number: 04
total_chapters: 27
book_short_name: Leviticus
book_link_name: Leviticus
layout: chapter
---
CHAPTER <sup>4</sup>
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <sup>2</sup>'Speak unto the children of Israel,
saying,  “If  a  soul  shall  sin  through  ignorance  before  the  LORD  of  any  of  the
commandments of the LORD concerning things which he ought not to do, and shall do
some of them; <sup>3</sup>if the priest that is anointed do sin, so that the people do sin, then shall
he bring for his sin, which he hath sinned, a calf without blemish of the herd unto the
LORD for his sin. <sup>4</sup>And he shall bring the calf unto the door of the tabernacle of witness
before the LORD, and shall put his hand upon the calf's head before the LORD, and kill
the calf before the LORD. <sup>5</sup>And the priest that is anointed, whose hands have been
perfected, when he hath received of the blood of the calf, shall then bring it into the
tabernacle of witness. <sup>6</sup>And the priest shall dip his finger into the blood, and sprinkle
the blood seven times before the LORD, over against the holy veil. <sup>7</sup>And the priest shall
put some of the blood of the calf upon the horns of the altar of the incense of the
composition, which is before the LORD, which is in the tabernacle of witness. And he
shall pour all the blood of the calf at the bottom of the altar of whole burnt­offerings,
which is by the doors of the tabernacle of witness. <sup>8</sup>And he shall take off from it all the
fat of the calf of the sin offering; the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is
upon the inwards, <sup>9</sup>and the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, which is upon
the flanks, and the caul upon the liver with the kidneys, it shall he take away. <sup>10</sup>As he
taketh it away from the calf of the sacrifice of peace offering, so shall the priest offer it
upon the altar of whole burnt­offering. <sup>11</sup>And the skin of the calf, and all its flesh, with
the head, and with the extremities, and the belly, and the dung, shall they take , <sup>12</sup>and
the whole calf shall they carry forth out of the camp unto a clean place, where they
pour out the ashes. And they shall consume it there upon the wood with fire; on the
outpouring of the ashes shall it be burnt. 
<sup>13</sup>'Now if the whole congregation of Israel be ignorant or unwilling, and a thing
escape  the  eyes  of  the  congregation,  and  they  have  done  one  of  any  of  the
commandments of the LORD which should not be done, and they transgress, <sup>14</sup>and the
sin wherein they have sinned become known to them; then the congregation shall bring
a calf without blemish of the cattle for a sin offering, and bring it before the doors of the
tabernacle of witness. <sup>15</sup>And the elders of the congregation shall lay their hands upon
the head of the calf before the LORD, and they shall kill the calf before the LORD.
<sup>16</sup>And the priest that is anointed shall bring of the calf's blood into the tabernacle of
witness, <sup>17</sup>and the priest shall dip his finger in some of the calf's blood, and sprinkle it
seven times before the LORD, even before the veil of the sanctuary. <sup>18</sup>And the priest
shall put of the blood upon the horns of the altar of the incense of composition which is
before the LORD, that is in the tabernacle of witness; and he shall pour out all the
blood at the bottom of the altar of whole burnt­offerings, which is at the door of the
tabernacle of witness. <sup>19</sup>And he shall take all the fat from it, and offer it up upon the
altar. <sup>20</sup>And he shall do with the calf as he did with the calf of the sin offering; so shall
it be done. And the priest shall make an atonement for them, and the trespass shall be
forgiven them. <sup>21</sup>And they shall carry forth the calf whole without the camp, and burn
the calf as they burned the former calf; it is the sin offering of the congregation. <sup>22</sup>And if<sup>98</sup>a ruler sin, and do one of all of the commandments of the LORD his God that ought not
to be done, unwillingly, and shall sin, and trespass, <sup>23</sup>and his trespass wherein he hath
sinned be known unto him, then he shall offer for his gift a kid of the goats, a male
without blemish. <sup>24</sup>And he shall lay his hand upon the head of the kid, and they shall
kill it in the place where they kill the whole burnt­offerings before the LORD; it is a sin
offering. <sup>25</sup>And the priest shall take of the blood of the sin offering with his finger, and
pour it out at the bottom of the altar of whole burnt­offering. <sup>26</sup>And he shall offer up all
his fat upon the altar, as the fat of the sacrifice of peace offering. And the priest shall
make an atonement for him as concerning his sin, and it shall be forgiven him. <sup>27</sup>And if
a soul of the people of the land sin without intent, and doeth a thing of any of the
commandments of the LORD which ought not to be done, and he transgress, <sup>28</sup>and his
sin wherein he hath sinned be known unto him; then he shall bring a kid of the goats.
A female without blemish shall he bring for his sin, which he hath sinned. <sup>29</sup>And he
shall lay his hand upon the head of his sin offering, and they shall slay the kid of the
sin offering in the place where they slay the whole burnt­offerings. <sup>30</sup>And the priest
shall take of the blood thereof with his finger, and put it upon the horns of the altar of
whole burnt­offerings, and shall pour out all the blood thereof at the bottom of the
altar. <sup>31</sup>And he shall take away all the fat, as the fat is taken away from off the peace­
offering, and the priest shall offer it upon the altar for a smell of a sweet savour unto
the LORD. And the priest shall make an atonement for him, and it shall be forgiven
him. <sup>32</sup>And if he offer a lamb for his sin offering, he shall offer it a female without
blemish. <sup>33</sup>And he shall lay his hand upon the head of the sin offerings, and they shall
slay it in the place where they kill the whole burnt­offerings. <sup>34</sup>And the priest shall take
of the blood of the sin offering with his finger, and put it upon the horns of the altar of
whole burnt­offering. <sup>35</sup>And he shall take away all the blood thereof at the bottom of the
altar, and he shall take away all the fat thereof, as the fat of the lamb is taken away
from the peace­offering. And the priest shall put it upon the altar for a whole burnt­
offering unto the LORD, and the priest shall make an atonement for the sin which he
sinned, and it shall be forgiven him.