---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 5
chapter_order_number: 05
total_chapters: 27
book_short_name: Leviticus
book_link_name: Leviticus
layout: chapter
---



CHAPTER <sup>5</sup>
'And if a soul sin, and hear the voice of swearing, and is a witness, or hath seen
or knoweth of it, if he do not utter it, then he shall bear his iniquity. <sup>2</sup>That soul which
shall touch any unclean thing, or carcase, or that which is unclean being taken of
beasts, or carcases of abominations which are unclean, or carcases of unclean cattle,
<sup>3</sup>or shall touch the uncleanness of a man, or whatsoever kind which he may touch, and
be defiled withal, and it have escaped him, but afterwards he know; then shall he have
transgressed. <sup>4</sup>Or a soul which sweareth, determining with his lips to do evil, or to do
good, according to whatsoever a man may determine with an oath, and it shall have
escaped his notice, and he shall know, and he sin in some one of these things; <sup>5</sup>then he
shall shew his sin in the things wherein he hath sinned by that sin. <sup>6</sup>And he shall bring
for his transgressions against the LORD for his sin, a ewe lamb of the sheep, or a kid of
the goats, for a sin offering. And the priest shall make an atonement for him for his sin
which he hath sinned, and his sin shall be forgiven him. 
<sup>7</sup>'But if his hand be not  able for that which is sufficient for a sheep, he shall
bring for his sin which he hath sinned, two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, unto the
LORD; one for a sin offering, and the second for a whole burnt­offering. <sup>8</sup>And he shall
bring them unto the priest, and the priest shall bring the sin offering first, and wring off
the head from the neck, but shall not divide the body asunder. <sup>9</sup>And he shall sprinkle
of the blood of the sin offering upon the side of the altar, but the rest of the blood shall
he drop at the bottom of the altar; for it is a sin offering. <sup>10</sup>And he shall make the<sup>99</sup>second a whole burnt­offering, as it is fitting, and the priest shall make an atonement
for his sin which he hath sinned, and it shall be forgiven him. <sup>11</sup>But if his hand find not
two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, then he shall bring as his gift for his sin the
tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a sin offering. He shall pour no oil upon it,
neither shall he put any frankincense thereon; for it is a sin offering. <sup>12</sup>And he shall
bring it to the priest, and the priest having taken a handful of it, shall lay the memorial
thereof upon the altar of whole burnt­offerings unto the LORD; it is a sin offering.
<sup>13</sup>And the priest shall make an atonement for him as touching his sin that he hath
sinned in one of these things, and it shall be forgiven him, and that which is left shall
be the priest's, as an offering of fine flour.” '
<sup>14</sup>And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <sup>15</sup>'The soul that is unaware, and
sinneth through ignorance in any of the holy things of the LORD, shall even bring unto
the LORD for his transgression a ram of the flock without blemish, valued according to
shekels of silver, after the shekel of the sanctuary, for his transgression wherein he
transgressed. <sup>16</sup>And he shall make amends for that wherein he hath sinned in the holy
things, and he shall add the fifth part thereto, and give it unto the priest. And the
priest shall make an atonement for him with the ram of transgression; and it shall be
forgiven him. 
<sup>17</sup>“And  the  soul  that  shall  sin,  and  shall  do  one  thing  of  any  of  the
commandments of the LORD which it is not right to do, and hath not known it, and
shall have transgressed, and shall have assumed the sin, <sup>18</sup>he shall even bring a lamb
without blemish out of the flock, of the price of silver for his transgression, unto the
priest. And the priest shall make an atonement concerning his trespass of ignorance
wherein he trespassed in ignorance and knew it not, and it shall be forgiven him. <sup>19</sup>For
he hath certainly been guilty of transgression before the LORD.' 
<sup>20</sup>And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <sup>21</sup>'If a soul hath sinned, and in
overlooking hath overlooked the commandments of the LORD, and he deal falsely in the
affairs of his neighbour in the matter of a deposit, or concerning fellowship or in spoil,
<sup>22</sup>or hath in any thing wronged his neighbour, <sup>23</sup>or hath found that which was lost, and
have lied concerning it, and have sworn unjustly in any one of all the things that a man
may  do  to  sin  thereby; <sup>24</sup>then  it  shall  be,  whensoever  he  shall  have  sinned  and
transgressed, that he shall restore the spoil which he hath seized, or the injury which
he hath committed, or restore the deposit which was entrusted unto him, or the lost
thing which he hath found of any thing, about which he have sworn unjustly. He shall
even restore it in full, and shall add a fifth part beside; he shall restore it unto him to
whom it pertaineth in the day wherein he be convicted. <sup>25</sup>And he shall bring unto the
LORD for his trespass a ram without blemish out of the flock, of value to the amount of
the thing wherein he trespassed. <sup>26</sup>And the priest shall make an atonement for him
before the LORD, and it shall be forgiven him for any one of all the things that he hath
done and trespassed therein.'