---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 6
chapter_order_number: 06
total_chapters: 27
book_short_name: Leviticus
book_link_name: Leviticus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>6</sup>
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <sup>2</sup>'Command Aaron and his sons,
saying, “This is the law of the whole burnt­offering. The whole burnt­offering itself in
the burning thereof shall be upon the altar all night unto the morning, and the fire of
the altar shall be burning on it; it shall not be put out. <sup>3</sup>And the priest shall put on a
linen garment, and the linen breeches shall he put upon his body, and take away that
which hath been thoroughly burnt, which the fire hath consumed, even the whole
burnt­offering, from off the altar, and he shall put it beside the altar. <sup>4</sup>'And he shall put
off his garment, and put on another garment, and carry forth the offering that hath
been burnt without the camp unto a clean place. <sup>5</sup>And the fire upon the altar shall be<sup>10</sup>kept burning on it, and shall not be put out, and the priest shall burn wood on it every
morning, and heap the whole burnt­offering upon it, and shall lay thereon the fat of the
peace­offering . <sup>6</sup>And the fire shall ever be burning upon the altar; it shall not be put
out. 
<sup>7</sup>' “This is the law of the sacrifice, which the sons of Aaron shall bring near
before the LORD, before the altar. <sup>8</sup>And he shall take of it a handful, of the fine flour of
the sacrifice, with the oil thereof, and with all the frankincense thereof which are upon
the sacrifice, and shall offer up upon the altar for a burnt offering, as a sweet smelling
savour, even a memorial of it, unto the LORD. <sup>9</sup>And the remainder thereof shall Aaron
and his sons eat; without leaven shall it be eaten in a holy place; in the court of the
tabernacle of witness they shall eat it. <sup>10</sup>It shall not be baked with leaven. I have given
it unto them for a portion of the burnt offerings of the LORD; it is most holy, as the sin
offering, and as the trespass offering. <sup>11</sup>Every male of the priests shall eat of it; it is a
perpetual ordinance for your generations of the offerings of the LORD. Whosoever
toucheth them shall be hallowed.” ' 
<sup>12</sup>And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <sup>13</sup>'This is the gift of Aaron and of his
sons, which they shall offer unto the LORD in the day when thou anointest him; the
tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a sacrifice perpetual, the half of it in the
morning, and the half thereof at even. <sup>14</sup>In a frying pan it shall be made with oil; he
shall bring it kneaded, rolled, an offering of fragments, an offering of a sweet savour
unto the LORD. <sup>15</sup>The priest of his sons that is anointed in his stead shall offer it; it is a
perpetual statute; all of it shall be consumed. <sup>16</sup>And every sacrifice of a priest shall be
wholly burnt, and shall not be eaten.' 
<sup>17</sup>And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <sup>18</sup>'Speak unto Aaron and to his sons,
saying, “This is the law of the sin offering; in the place where they kill the whole burnt­
offering shall they kill the sin offerings before the LORD; they are most holy. <sup>19</sup>The
priest that offereth it shall eat it; in a holy place shall it be eaten, in the court of the
tabernacle of witness. <sup>20</sup>Every one that toucheth the flesh thereof shall be holy; and on
whose garment there hath been sprinkled any of the blood, and whosoever shall have it
sprinkled shall be washed in the holy place. <sup>21</sup>And the earthen vessel wherein it is
sodden shall be broken; and if it have been sodden in a brazen vessel, he shall both
scour it, and wash it with water. <sup>22</sup>Every male among the priests shall eat thereof; it is
most holy unto the LORD. <sup>23</sup>And no sin offerings, of whose blood there shall be brought
any into the tabernacle of witness to make an atonement in the holy place, shall be
eaten; they shall be burned with fire.