---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 7
chapter_order_number: 07
total_chapters: 27
book_short_name: Leviticus
book_link_name: Leviticus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>7</sup>
' “And this is the law of the ram for the trespass offering; it is most holy. <sup>2</sup>In the
place where they kill the whole burnt­offering shall they kill the ram of the trespass
offering before the LORD; and he shall pour out the blood round about at the bottom of
the altar. <sup>3</sup>And he shall offer of it all the fat thereof, and the loins, and all the fat that
covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards, <sup>4</sup>and the two kidneys,
and the fat that is on them, that which is upon the flanks, and the caul that is above
the liver with the kidney, them shall he take away. <sup>5</sup>And the priest shall offer them
upon the altar, a burnt offering unto the LORD; it is for trespass. <sup>6</sup>Every male of the
priest shall eat them. They shall eat them in the holy place; it is most holy. <sup>7</sup>As the sin
offering is, so also is the trespass offering; there is one law of them. The priest that
maketh an atonement therewith, his shall it be. <sup>8</sup>And the priest that offereth a man's
whole burnt­offering, the skin of the whole burnt­offering which he offereth shall be his.
<sup>9</sup>And every sacrifice that shall be prepared in the oven, and every one that shall be
prepared in the hearth or on a frying pan, it is the priest's that offereth it; it shall be<sup>10</sup>his. <sup>10</sup>And every sacrifice prepared with oil, or not prepared with oil, shall be for the
sons of Aaron unto each equally. 
<sup>11</sup>'This is the law of the peace­offering, which they shall bring unto the LORD.
<sup>12</sup>If a man offer it for praise, then shall he bring for the sacrifice of praise loaves of fine
flour made up with oil, and unleavened cakes anointed with oil, and fine flour kneaded
with oil. <sup>13</sup>With leavened bread he shall offer his gifts, with a sacrifice of praise of his
deliverance. <sup>14</sup>And he shall bring one of all his gifts, a separate offering unto the LORD;
it shall be the priest's that poureth the blood of the peace offering. <sup>15</sup>And the flesh of
the sacrifice of praise of deliverance shall be his, and it shall be eaten in the day that it
is offered; they shall not leave any of it until the morning. <sup>16</sup>And if it be a vow, or he
offer his gift of his own will, on whatsoever day he shall offer his sacrifice it shall be
eaten, and on the morrow. <sup>17</sup>And that which is left of the flesh of the sacrifice until the
third day shall be consumed with fire. <sup>18</sup>And if he at all eat of the flesh on the third day,
it shall not be accepted for him that offereth. It shall not be reckoned unto him that
offereth; it is pollution, and whatsoever soul shall eat of it shall bear his iniquity. <sup>19</sup>And
whatsoever flesh shall touch any unclean thing shall not be eaten; it shall be consumed
with fire; every one that is clean shall eat the flesh. <sup>20</sup>And whatsoever soul shall eat of
the flesh of the peace­offering, that pertaineth unto the LORD, and his uncleanness be
upon him, even that soul shall perish from his people. <sup>21</sup>And whatsoever soul shall
touch any unclean thing, either of the uncleanness of a man, or of unclean four­footed
beasts, or any unclean abominable thing, and eat of the flesh of the sacrifice of the
peace offerings , which pertaineth unto the LORD, even that soul shall perish from his
people.” ' 
<sup>22</sup>And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <sup>23</sup>'Speak unto the children of Israel,
saying, “Ye shall eat no fat, of oxen, or of sheep, or of goats. <sup>24</sup>And the fat of such
beasts as have died of themselves, or have been seized of beasts, may be used in any
use, but it shall not be eaten for meat. <sup>25</sup>Every one that eateth fat from off the beasts of
which he will bring a burnt offering unto the LORD, even that soul shall perish from his
people. <sup>26</sup>Ye shall eat no blood in all your dwellings, either of fowl or of beast. <sup>27</sup>Every
soul that shall eat blood, even that soul shall perish from his people.” ' <sup>28</sup>And the LORD
spake unto Moses, saying, <sup>29</sup>'Thou shalt also speak unto the children of Israel, saying,
“He that offereth a sacrifice of peace offering shall bring his gift unto the LORD also of
the sacrifice of his deliverance offering . <sup>30</sup>His own hands shall bring the burnt offerings
unto the LORD; the fat which is on the breast and the lobe of the liver, them shall he
bring to set them for a gift unto the LORD. <sup>31</sup>And the priest shall offer the fat upon the
altar, and the breast shall be Aaron's and his sons'. <sup>32</sup>And the right shoulder shall ye
give for a choice piece unto the priest of the sacrifices of your deliverance offering . <sup>33</sup>He
among the sons of Aaron, that offereth the blood of the deliverance offering, and the fat,
his shall be the right shoulder for a portion. <sup>34</sup>For the breast of the increase and the
shoulder of separation have I taken of the children of Israel from off the sacrifices of
your deliverance  offerings , and have given them unto Aaron the priest and unto his
sons, a perpetual ordinance from the children of Israel.” ' 
<sup>35</sup>This is the portion of the anointing of Aaron, and of the anointing of his sons,
out of their portions of the burnt offerings of the LORD, in the day when he brought
them  forward  to  minister  unto  the  LORD  in  the  priest's  office; <sup>36</sup>as  the  LORD
commanded to give them, in the day that he anointed them of the children of Israel, a
perpetual ordinance throughout their generations. <sup>37</sup>This is the law of the whole burnt­
offerings, and of sacrifice, and of sin offering, and of offering for transgression, and of
the sacrifice of consecration, and of the peace­offering; <sup>38</sup>as the LORD commanded
Moses in the mount Sinai in the day that He commanded the children of Israel to offer
their gifts before the LORD, in the wilderness of Sinai.<sup>10</sup>