---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 8
chapter_order_number: 08
total_chapters: 27
book_short_name: Leviticus
book_link_name: Leviticus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>8</sup>
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <sup>2</sup>'Take Aaron and his sons, and his
garments, and the anointing oil, and the calf for the sin offering, and the two rams, and
the basket of unleavened bread; <sup>3</sup>and gather thou all the congregation together unto the
door of the tabernacle of witness'. <sup>4</sup>And Moses did as the LORD appointed him; and he
gathered together the congregation unto the door of the tabernacle of witness. <sup>5</sup>And
Moses said unto the congregation, 'This is the thing which the LORD commanded to be
done'. <sup>6</sup>And Moses brought Aaron and his sons, and washed them with water. <sup>7</sup>And he
put upon him the coat, and girded him with the girdle, and clothed him with the robe,
and put the shoulder­piece upon him, <sup>8</sup>and girded him according to the fashion of the
shoulder­piece, and clasped him closely therewith. And he put the oracle upon it; also
he put upon the oracle the Manifestation and the Truth. <sup>9</sup>And he put the headtire upon
his head; also upon the headtire, even in the forefront, did he put the golden plate, the
most holy thing, as the LORD commanded Moses. <sup>10</sup>And Moses took of the anointing
oil, <sup>11</sup>and sprinkled thereof seven times upon the altar, and anointed the altar, and
hallowed it and all that was thereon, and the laver and its foot, and sanctified them.
And he anointed the tabernacle, and all the furniture thereof, and hallowed it. <sup>12</sup>And
Moses poured of the anointing oil upon Aaron's head, and anointed him, and sanctified
him. <sup>13</sup>And Moses brought near Aaron's sons, and put coats upon them, and girded
them with girdles, and put bonnets upon them, as the LORD commanded Moses. <sup>14</sup>And
Moses brought near the calf for the sin offering, and Aaron and his sons laid their
hands upon the head of the calf of the sin offering. <sup>15</sup>And he slew it; and Moses took of
the blood, and put it upon the horns of the altar round about with his finger, and
purified the altar, and poured out the blood at the bottom of the altar, and sanctified it
to make atonement upon it. <sup>16</sup>And Moses took all the fat that was upon the inwards,
and the lobe upon the liver, and both of the kidneys, and the fat that was upon them,
and Moses offered them upon the altar. <sup>17</sup>But the calf, and his hide, and his flesh, and
his dung, he burnt with fire without the camp, as the LORD commanded Moses. <sup>18</sup>And
Moses brought near the ram for a whole burnt­offering; and Aaron and his sons laid
their hands upon the head of the ram. <sup>19</sup>And Moses killed the ram, and Moses poured
the blood upon the altar round about. <sup>20</sup>And he divided the ram by his limbs, and
Moses offered the head, and the limbs, and the fat; <sup>21</sup>and he washed the inwards and
the feet with water; and Moses offered up the whole ram upon the altar. It is a whole
burnt­offering for a sweet smelling savour; it is a burnt offering unto the LORD, as the
LORD  commanded  Moses. <sup>22</sup>And  Moses  brought  the  second  ram,  the  ram  of
consecration, and Aaron and his sons laid their hands upon the head of the ram, and
he slew him. <sup>23</sup>And Moses took of the blood of it, and put it upon the tip of Aaron's right
ear, and upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the great toe of his right foot.
<sup>24</sup>And Moses brought near Aaron's sons, and Moses put of the blood upon the tips of
their right ears, and upon the thumbs of their right hands, and upon the great toes of
their right feet; and Moses poured the blood upon the altar round about. <sup>25</sup>And he took
the fat, and the rump, and the fat that was upon the inwards, and the lobe of the liver,
and the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, and the right shoulder. <sup>26</sup>And out
of the basket of consecration, that was before the LORD, he took also one unleavened
loaf, and one loaf made with oil, and one cake, and put them upon the fat and upon the
right shoulder. <sup>27</sup>And he put them all upon Aaron's hands, and upon his sons' hands,
and offered them up for a wave offering before the LORD. <sup>28</sup>And Moses took them at
their hands, and Moses offered them on the altar upon the whole burnt­offering of
consecration, which is a smell of sweet savour; it is a burnt offering unto the LORD.
<sup>29</sup>And Moses took the breast, and separated it for a heave offering before the LORD from
the ram of consecration, and it became Moses' portion, as the LORD commanded
Moses. <sup>30</sup>And Moses took of the anointing oil, and of the blood which was upon the<sup>10</sup>altar, and sprinkled it upon Aaron, and upon his garments, and upon his sons, and
upon his sons' garments with him. And he sanctified Aaron, and his garments, and his
sons, and his sons' garments with him. <sup>31</sup>And Moses said unto Aaron and to his sons,
'Boil the flesh in the court of the tabernacle of witness in the holy place, and there ye
shall eat it and the loaves that are in the basket of consecration, as it hath been
appointed me, saying, “Aaron and his sons shall eat them”. <sup>32</sup>And that which remaineth
of the flesh and of the loaves, burn ye with fire. <sup>33</sup>And ye shall not go out of the door of
the tabernacle of witness for seven days, until the day be fulfilled, the day of your
consecration; for seven days shall he consecrate your hands, <sup>34</sup>as he did this day,
wherein the LORD commanded me to do, to make an atonement for you. <sup>35</sup>And ye shall
abide at the door of the tabernacle of witness day and night seven days; ye shall observe
the ordinances of the LORD that ye die not; for so hath the LORD God commanded me.'
<sup>36</sup>And Aaron and his sons did all these commandments which the LORD commanded
Moses.