---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 9
chapter_order_number: 09
total_chapters: 27
book_short_name: Leviticus
book_link_name: Leviticus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>9</sup>
And it came to pass on the eighth day, that Moses called Aaron and his sons,
and the council of elders of Israel. <sup>2</sup>And Moses said unto Aaron, 'Take thee a young calf
of the oxen for a sin offering, and a ram for a whole burnt­offering, without blemish,
and offer them before the LORD. <sup>3</sup>And speak unto the children of Israel, saying, “Take
ye one kid of the goats for a sin offering, and a young calf, and a lamb of a year old,
without blemish, for a whole burnt­offering; <sup>4</sup>also a calf and a ram for a peace­offering
before the LORD; and fine flour mingled with oil; for today the LORD will appear among
you”.' <sup>5</sup>And they took as Moses commanded them before the tabernacle of witness, and
all the congregation drew near and stood before the LORD. <sup>6</sup>And Moses said, 'This is
the thing which the LORD hath spoken; do it, and the glory of the LORD shall appear
among you'. <sup>7</sup>And Moses said unto Aaron, 'Draw near unto the altar, and offer thy sin
offering, and thy burnt offering, and make an atonement for thyself, and for thy house;
and offer the gifts of the gifts of the people, and make an atonement for them', as the
LORD commanded Moses. <sup>8</sup>And Aaron drew near unto the altar, and slew the calf of
the sin offering. <sup>9</sup>And the sons of Aaron brought the blood unto him; and he dipped his
finger in the blood, and put it upon the horns of the altar, and poured out the blood at
the bottom of the altar. <sup>10</sup>And the fat, and the kidneys, and the lobe of the liver of the
sin offering, he offered up upon the altar, according as the LORD commanded Moses.
<sup>11</sup>And the flesh and the hide he burnt with fire without the camp. <sup>12</sup>And he slew the
whole burnt­offering; and Aaron's sons brought the blood unto him, and he poured it
upon  the  altar  round  about. <sup>13</sup>And  they  brought  him  the  whole  burnt­offering,
according to the pieces thereof, them, and the head; and he put them upon the altar.
<sup>14</sup>And he did wash the inwards and the feet with water, and put them upon the whole
burnt­offering on the altar. <sup>15</sup>And he brought the people's gift, and took the goat of the
sin offering of the people, and he slew it, and offered it, and purified it, as also the first.
<sup>16</sup>And he brought the whole burnt­offering, and offered it as is fitting. <sup>17</sup>And he brought
the sacrifice, and filled his hands therewith, and laid it upon the altar, beside the whole
burnt­offering of the morning. <sup>18</sup>He slew also the calf and the ram of the peace­offering
of the people; and Aaron's sons brought the blood unto him, and he poured it out upon
the altar round about, <sup>19</sup>and the fat of the calf and the rump of the ram, and the fat
which covereth the inwards, and the two kidneys, and the fat upon them, and the caul
upon the liver. <sup>20</sup>And he put the fat upon the breasts, and offered the fat upon the
altar. <sup>21</sup>And the breast and the right shoulder Aaron separated as a choice offering
before the LORD, as the LORD commanded Moses. <sup>22</sup>And Aaron lifted up his hands
upon the people, and blessed them, and after he had offered the sin offering, and the<sup>10</sup>whole burnt­offerings, and the deliverance offerings , he came down. <sup>23</sup>And Moses and
Aaron entered into the tabernacle of witness, and came out, and blessed all the people;
and the glory of the LORD appeared unto all the people. <sup>24</sup>And there came a fire out
from the LORD, and consumed that which was upon the altar, both the whole burnt­
offerings and the fat. And all the people saw, and were astonished, and fell on their
faces.