---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 10
chapter_order_number: 10
total_chapters: 27
book_short_name: Leviticus
book_link_name: Leviticus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>10</sup>
And Nadab and Abihu, the two sons of Aaron, took each his censer, and put fire
therein, and threw incense thereon, and offered strange fire before the LORD, which the
LORD commanded them not. <sup>2</sup>And there went out fire from the LORD, and devoured
them, and they died before the LORD. <sup>3</sup>And Moses said unto Aaron, 'This is the thing
that the LORD spake, saying, “I will be sanctified among them that draw nigh unto me,
and in all the congregation I will be glorified” '. And Aaron was sore troubled. <sup>4</sup>And
Moses called Mishael and Elzaphan, the sons of Uzziel, the sons of the brother of
Aaron's father, and said unto them, 'Come near, and take your brethren from before the
holy things without the camp'. <sup>5</sup>And they came near, and took them in their coats
without the camp, as Moses had said. <sup>6</sup>And Moses said unto Aaron and unto Eleazar
and Ithamar, his sons that were left, 'Ye shall not uncover your heads, neither shall ye
rend your clothes, that ye die not, and there be wrath upon all the congregation; but
your brethren, the whole house of Israel, shall bewail the burning, wherewith they were
burned by the LORD. <sup>7</sup>And ye shall not go out from the door of the tabernacle of
witness, that ye die not; for the anointing oil of the LORD is upon you.' And they did
according to the word of Moses. 
<sup>8</sup>And the LORD spake unto Aaron, saying, <sup>9</sup>'Ye shall not drink wine nor strong
drink, thou, and thy sons with thee, whensoever ye go into the tabernacle of witness, or
when  ye  approach  the  altar;  so  shall  ye  not  die;  it  shall  be  a  perpetual  statute
throughout your generations, <sup>10</sup>to put difference between holy and unholy, and between
clean and unclean, <sup>11</sup>and to teach the children of Israel all the statutes which the LORD
hath spoken unto them by the hand of Moses.' 
<sup>12</sup>And Moses said unto Aaron, and unto Eleazar and Ithamar, the sons of Aaron
that were left, 'Take the sacrifice that remaineth of the burnt offerings of the LORD, and
ye shall eat it without leaven beside the altar; it is holy of holies. <sup>13</sup>And ye shall eat it in
a holy place, because this is a statute for thee, and a statute for thy sons, of the burnt
offerings unto the LORD; for so it hath been commanded me. <sup>14</sup>And the breast of
separation and the shoulder of the choice offering shall ye eat in the holy place, thou
and thy sons and thy house with thee, for it hath been given as an ordinance for thee,
and an ordinance for thy sons, out of the sacrifices of peace offering of the children of
Israel. <sup>15</sup>The shoulder of the choice offering and the breast of the separation shall they
bring upon the burnt offerings of the fat, to separate for a separation before the LORD.
And it shall be a perpetual ordinance for thee, and thy sons and thy daughters with
thee;' as the LORD commanded Moses. 
<sup>16</sup>And Moses diligently sought the goat of the sin offering, but it had been
consumed by fire. And Moses was angry with Eleazar and Ithamar the sons of Aaron
which were left alive, saying, <sup>17</sup>“Wherefore have ye not eaten the sin offering in the holy
place? For seeing it is most holy, he hath given ye this to eat, that ye might take away
the sin of the congregation, and make atonement for them before the LORD. <sup>18</sup>For the
blood of it was not brought in within the holy place; ye shall eat it within, as the LORD
commanded me.' <sup>19</sup>And Aaron spake unto Moses, saying, 'If this day they have brought
their sin offerings and their whole burnt­offerings before the LORD, and these things<sup>10</sup>have befallen me, and I eat the sin offerings today, will it not be pleasing unto the
LORD?' <sup>20</sup>And Moses heard, and it pleased him.