---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 11
chapter_order_number: 11
total_chapters: 27
book_short_name: Leviticus
book_link_name: Leviticus
layout: chapter
---
CHAPTER <sup>11</sup>
And  the  LORD  spake  unto  Moses  and  to  Aaron,  saying, <sup>2</sup>'Speak  unto  the
children of Israel, saying, “These are the beasts which ye shall eat of all beasts that are
on the earth. <sup>3</sup>Every beast that parteth the hoof, and maketh division into two hooves,
and cheweth the cud among beasts, these shall ye eat. <sup>4</sup>Nevertheless of these shall ye
not eat of them that chew the cud, and of them that part the hoof and divide the hoof;
the camel, because it cheweth the cud, but divideth not the hoof, this is unclean unto
you. <sup>5</sup>And the coney, because it cheweth the cud, but divideth not the hoof, this is
unclean unto you. <sup>6</sup>And the hare, because it cheweth the cud, but divideth not the
hoof, this is unclean unto you. <sup>7</sup>And the swine, because this divideth the hoof, and
cleaveth the claws of the hoof, yet it cheweth not the cud; this is unclean to you. <sup>8</sup>Of
their flesh shall ye not eat, and their carcases shall ye not touch; these are unclean
unto you. 
<sup>9</sup>'And these shall ye eat of all that are in the waters; all things that have fins and
scales in the waters, in the seas and in the brooks, these shall ye eat. <sup>10</sup>And all things
that have not fins and scales in the waters, or in the seas, and in the brooks, of all that
the  waters  bring  forth,  and  of  every  living  soul  which  is  in  the  water,  are  an
abomination; <sup>11</sup>and they shall be even abominations unto you. Ye shall not eat of their
flesh, but ye shall have their carcases in abomination. <sup>12</sup>And all things that have no
fins nor scales of those in the waters, that shall be an abomination unto you. 
<sup>13</sup>'And these are they which ye shall have in abomination among the fowls; and
they shall not be eaten, they are an abomination; the eagle, and the osifrage, and the
sea eagle; <sup>14</sup>and the vulture, and the kite, and that which is after its kind; <sup>15</sup>and the
raven, and that which is after its kind; <sup>16</sup>and the ostrich, and the owl, and the sea mew,
and the hawk, and that which is after its kind; <sup>17</sup>and the night owl, and the cormorant,
and the screech owl, <sup>18</sup>and the red bill, and the pelican, and the swan, <sup>19</sup>and the heron,
and the lapwing, and that which is after its kind; and the hoopoe, and the bat. <sup>20</sup>And
all winged creatures that creep, going upon all four, are abominations unto you. <sup>21</sup>Yet
these shall ye eat of the creeping winged animals that goeth upon all four, which have
legs above their feet, to leap withal upon the earth, <sup>22</sup>even these of them ye shall eat; the
locust after its kind; and the bald locust after its kind; and the grasshopper after its
kind; and the grasshopper that fighteth snakes after its kind. <sup>23</sup>All winged creeping
things which have four feet are an abomination unto you. <sup>24</sup>And by these shall ye be
defiled; every one that toucheth the carcase of them shall be unclean until the even.
<sup>25</sup>And every one that taketh of their dead bodies shall wash his clothes, and be unclean
until the even. <sup>26</sup>And whichever among the beasts divideth the hoof, or hath a cloven
hoof, or cheweth the cud, shall be unclean unto you; every one that toucheth their
carcases shall be unclean until the even. <sup>27</sup>And every one among all the wild beasts
that moveth upon his forefeet, which goeth on all four, is unclean unto you; every one
that toucheth their carcases shall be unclean until the even. <sup>28</sup>And he that taketh of
their dead bodies shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the even; these are
unclean unto you. 
<sup>29</sup>'These also shall be unclean unto you among the creeping things that creep
upon the earth; the weasel, and the mouse, and the land crocodile, <sup>30</sup>the field mouse,
and the chameleon, and the gecko, and the lizard, and the newt, and the mole. <sup>31</sup>These
are unclean to you of all creeping things which are upon the earth; every one that doth
touch their carcases shall be unclean until the even. <sup>32</sup>And upon whatsoever one of
their dead bodies shall fall, it shall be unclean; whatsoever wooden vessel, or raiment,<sup>10</sup>or skin, or sack, every vessel wherein work be done shall be dipped in water, and it
shall be unclean until the even, and it shall be clean. <sup>33</sup>And every earthen vessel
whereinto one of these things shall fall; whatsoever is in it shall be unclean, and it shall
be broken. <sup>34</sup>And all meat that is eaten that on which such water cometh shall be
unclean; and every drink that is drunk in any such vessel shall be unclean. <sup>35</sup>And
every thing whereupon any of their carcases shall fall shall be unclean; ovens and
stands for jars, they shall be broken down; these are unclean and shall be unclean unto
you. <sup>36</sup>Only if the water be of fountains of water, or a pool, or gathering of water, it shall
be clean; but he that toucheth their carcases in them shall be unclean. <sup>37</sup>And if one of
their carcases fall upon any sowing seed which is to be sown, it shall be clean. <sup>38</sup>But if
water be poured upon any seed, and one of their dead bodies fall thereon, it is unclean
unto you. <sup>39</sup>And if a beast die, that which it is lawful for you to eat, he that toucheth
their carcases shall be unclean until the even. <sup>40</sup>And he that eateth of the carcase of
them shall wash his clothes and be unclean until the even; he also that beareth any
carcase of theirs shall wash his clothes and be unclean until the even. 
<sup>41</sup>'And every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth, this shall be an
abomination unto you; it shall not be eaten. <sup>42</sup>And every thing that creepeth upon his
belly, and every one that goeth on four feet continually, which aboundeth with feet
among all creeping things that creep upon the earth, it ye shall not eat, for it is an
abomination unto you. <sup>43</sup>And ye shall not make your souls abominable with any of the
creeping things that creep upon the earth, neither shall ye be polluted with them, and
ye shall not be unclean by them. <sup>44</sup>For I am the LORD your God, and ye shall be
sanctified, and ye shall be holy; for I, the LORD your God, am holy; neither shall ye
defile yourselves with any creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth. <sup>45</sup>For I am the
LORD that brought you up out of the land of Egypt, to be your God; and ye shall be
holy, for I, the LORD, am holy. <sup>46</sup>This is the law concerning beasts and fowls, and every
living creature that moveth in the water, and every living creature that creepeth upon
the earth, <sup>47</sup>to make a difference between the unclean and the clean, and between those
that bring forth alive such as should be eaten and those that bring forth alive such as
should not be eaten.” ' 