---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 13
chapter_order_number: 13
total_chapters: 27
book_short_name: Leviticus
book_link_name: Leviticus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>13</sup>
And the LORD spake unto Moses and Aaron, saying, <sup>2</sup>'If any man shall have in
the skin of his flesh a bright clear spot, and there be in the skin of his flesh a plague of
leprosy, he shall be brought to Aaron the priest, or unto one of his sons the priests.
<sup>3</sup>And the priests shall look on the spot in the skin of his flesh, and if the hair in the spot
be turned white, and the appearance of the spot be deep in the skin of the flesh, it is a
plague of leprosy; and the priest shall look on it and pronounce him defiled. <sup>4</sup>But if the
spot be clear and white in the skin of his flesh, yet the appearance of it be not deep in
the skin, and the hair thereof be not changed into a white hair, but it be dark; then the
priest shall separate him that hath the spot seven days. <sup>5</sup>And the priest shall look on
the spot the seventh day, and behold, if the spot remaineth before him, if the spot have
not spread in the skin, then the priest shall separate him the second time seven days.
<sup>6</sup>And the priest shall look on him the second time on the seventh day, and behold, if the
spot be dark, and the spot have not spread in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce
him clean; for it is but a mark, and the man shall wash his clothes and be clean. <sup>7</sup>But
if the bright spot have changed, and spread abroad in the skin after that the priest hath
seen him for cleansing of him, then shall he appear the second time unto the priest.
<sup>8</sup>And the priest shall look on him, and behold, if the mark have spread in the skin, then
the priest shall pronounce him unclean; it is a leprosy. <sup>9</sup>And if a man have a plague of
leprosy, then shall he come unto the priest, <sup>10</sup>and the priest shall look. And behold, if it
be a white spot in the skin, and it have turned the hair white, and if there be some of
the sound part in the quick flesh of the sore, <sup>11</sup>it is a leprosy waxing old in the skin of
his flesh; and the priest shall pronounce him unclean, and shall separate him, for he is
unclean. <sup>12</sup>And if the leprosy have come out very evidently in the skin, and the leprosy
cover all the skin of the plague, from the head even to the foot, according to the whole
vision of the priest, <sup>13</sup>then the priest shall look, and behold, the leprosy hath covered all
the skin of the flesh, and the priest shall pronounce him clean of the plague because it
is all turned white; it is clean. <sup>14</sup>But on whatsoever day the living flesh shall appear on
him, he shall be pronounced unclean, <sup>15</sup>and the priest shall look on the sound flesh,
and the sound flesh shall prove him to be unclean, for it is unclean; it is a leprosy.
<sup>16</sup>But if the sound flesh be restored again, and be turned white, then he shall come unto
the priest, <sup>17</sup>and the priest shall see, and behold, if the plague be turned into white,
then the priest shall pronounce him clean that hath the plague; he is clean. 
<sup>18</sup>'And if the flesh have become an ulcer in the skin thereof, and be healed, <sup>19</sup>and
in the place of the ulcer there be a white sore, or one looking white, or bright, or fiery,
and it be seen by the priest; <sup>20</sup>then the priest shall look, and behold, if the appearance
be beneath the skin, and the hair thereof be changed to white, then the priest shall
pronounce him unclean, for it is a leprosy; it hath broken out in the ulcer. <sup>21</sup>But if the
priest look, and behold, there is no white hair therein, and if it be not below the skin of
the flesh, and it be dark in colour, then the priest shall separate him seven days. <sup>22</sup>But
if it manifestly spread abroad over the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him
unclean; it is a plague of leprosy, it hath broken out in the ulcer. <sup>23</sup>But if the bright
spot stay in his place, and spread not, it is the scar of the ulcer, and the priest shall
pronounce him clean. 
<sup>24</sup>'And if the flesh be in the skin thereof a fiery inflammation, and there be in the
skin thereof the part which is healed of the inflammation, bright, clear, white, becoming
somewhat reddish or very white, <sup>25</sup>then the priest shall look upon it, and behold, if the
hair being white be changed into a bright colour, and the appearance thereof be deeper
in the skin, it is a leprosy; it hath broken out in the inflammation, and the priest shall
pronounce him unclean; it is a leprosy. <sup>26</sup>But if the priest look, and behold, there be
not any white hair, and it be not lower than the skin, and it be dark, then the priest<sup>10</sup>shall separate him seven days. <sup>27</sup>And the priest shall look upon him the seventh day,
and if the spot be much spread abroad in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him
unclean; it is a plague of leprosy, it hath broken out in the ulcer. <sup>28</sup>But if the bright
spot stay in its place, and be not spread in the skin, but it be dark, it is a scar of
inflammation, and the priest shall pronounce him clean; for it is the mark of the
inflammation. 
<sup>29</sup>'And if a man or woman have in them a plague of leprosy upon the head or the
beard, <sup>30</sup>then the priest shall look upon the plague; and behold, if the appearance of it
be deep in the skin, and there be in it a thin yellow hair, then the priest shall
pronounce him unclean; it is a scurf, it is even a leprosy of the head or a leprosy of the
beard. <sup>31</sup>And if the priest look on the plague of the scurf, and behold, the appearance of
it be not deep in the skin, and there be no yellowish hair in it, then the priest shall set
him apart that hath the plague of the scall seven days. <sup>32</sup>And in the seventh day the
priest shall look on the plague, and behold, if the scall be not spread, and there be in it
no yellowish hair, and the appearance of the scall be not hollow deep in the skin; <sup>33</sup>then
the skin shall be shaven but the scall shall not be shaven, and the priest shall set apart
him that hath the scall a second time for seven days. <sup>34</sup>And in the seventh day the
priest shall look on the scall, and behold, if the scall be not spread in the skin after the
man hath been shaven, and the appearance of the scall be not hollow deep in the skin,
then the priest shall pronounce him clean, and he shall wash his clothes, and be clean.
<sup>35</sup>But if the scall be indeed spread in the skin after he hath been cleansed, <sup>36</sup>then the
priest shall look; and behold, if the scall be spread in the skin, the priest shall not seek
for the yellow hair, for he is unclean. <sup>37</sup>But if the scall remaineth before him in the
place thereof, and a dark hair have arisen therein, the scall is healed; he is clean, and
the priest shall pronounce him clean. 
<sup>38</sup>'If a man also or woman have in their flesh spots of a bright whiteness, <sup>39</sup>then
the priest shall look; and behold, there being bright spots of a bright whiteness in the
skin of their flesh, it is a freckled spot; it bursteth forth in the skin of his flesh; he is
clean. 
<sup>40</sup>'And if any man's head lose the hair, he is bald, yet he is clean. <sup>41</sup>And if his
head lose the hair in front, he is forehead bald, yet he is clean. <sup>42</sup>And if there be in the
baldness of his head, or the baldness of his forehead a white or fiery plague, it is a
leprosy in the baldness of his head, or the baldness of his forehead. <sup>43</sup>And the priest
shall look upon him, and behold, if the appearance of the plague be white or inflamed
on the baldness of his head, or baldness before as the appearance of leprosy in the skin
of his flesh, <sup>44</sup>he is a leprous man; the priest shall surely pronounce him unclean; his
plague is in his head. 
<sup>45</sup>'And the leper in whom the plague is, let his clothes be ungirt, and his head
uncovered, and let him have a covering put upon his mouth, and he shall be called
unclean. <sup>46</sup>All the days wherein the plague shall be in him, being unclean, he shall be
esteemed unclean; he shall dwell apart, without the camp shall his living be. 
<sup>47</sup>'And if a garment have in it the plague of leprosy, a garment of wool, or a
garment of flax, <sup>48</sup>either in the warp, or in the woof, or in the linen, or in the woollen
threads, or in a skin, or in any work of skin, <sup>49</sup>and the plague be greenish or reddish in
the skin or in the garment, either in the warp, or in the woof, or in any work that is
made of skin; it is a plague of leprosy, and he shall shew it unto the priest. <sup>50</sup>And the
priest shall look upon the plague, and the priest shall set him apart that hath the
plague seven days, <sup>51</sup>and the priest shall look upon the plague on the seventh day. And
if the plague be spread in the garment, either in the warp, or in the woof, or in the skin,
in whatsoever things skins may be used in their workmanship, the plague is an abiding
leprosy; it is unclean. <sup>52</sup>He shall burn the garment, either warp or woof, in woollen
garments, or in flaxen, or in any work of skin wherein the plague may be, because it is
an abiding leprosy; it shall be burnt with fire. <sup>53</sup>And if the priest look, and the plague<sup>10</sup>be not spread in the garments, either in the warp, or in the woof, or in any work of skin;
<sup>54</sup>then the priest shall give direction, and one shall wash that wherein there may have
been the plague, and the priest shall set it apart a second time seven days. <sup>55</sup>And the
priest shall look upon it after that the plague is washed, and if this, even the plague,
hath not changed its appearance, and the plague hath not spread, it is unclean; it shall
be burnt with fire; it is settled in the garment, in the warp or in the woof. <sup>56</sup>And if the
priest look, and the spot be dark after it have been washed, he shall rend it out of the
garment, either from the warp, or from the woof, or from the skin. <sup>57</sup>And if it appear
still in the garment, either in the warp, or in the woof, or in any thing of skin, it is a
leprosy bursting forth; that wherein the plague is shall be burnt with fire. <sup>58</sup>And the
garment, or the warp, or the woof, or any article of skin, which shall be washed, and the
plague depart from it, shall also be washed again, and shall be clean. <sup>59</sup>This is the law
of the plague of leprosy of a garment of woollen, or linen, either of the warp, or of the
woof, or any thing of leather, to pronounce it clean or unclean.'