---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 14
chapter_order_number: 14
total_chapters: 27
book_short_name: Leviticus
book_link_name: Leviticus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>14</sup>
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <sup>2</sup>'This is the law of the leper. In
whatsoever day he shall have been cleansed, then shall he be brought unto the priest.
<sup>3</sup>And the priest shall come forth out of the camp, and the priest shall look; and behold,
the plague of leprosy is healed from the leper. <sup>4</sup>And the priest shall give direction, and
they shall take for him that is cleansed two birds, alive and clean, and cedar wood, and
spun scarlet, and hyssop. <sup>5</sup>And the priest shall give direction, and they shall kill one
bird in an earthen vessel over living water. <sup>6</sup>And as for the living bird, he shall take it,
and the cedar wood, and the spun scarlet, and the hyssop, and dip them and the living
bird in the blood of the bird that was killed over living water. <sup>7</sup>And he shall sprinkle
upon him that was cleansed from his leprosy seven times, and he shall be clean; and he
shall let the living bird loose into the field. <sup>8</sup>And he that hath been cleansed shall wash
his clothes, and shave off all his hair, and wash himself in water, and shall be clean.
And after that he shall come into the camp, and shall tarry abroad out of his dwelling
seven days. <sup>9</sup>But it shall be on the seventh day, that he shall shave all his hair off his
head, and his beard, and his eyebrows, even all his hair he shall shave off, and he shall
wash his clothes. Also he shall wash his body with water, and he shall be clean. <sup>10</sup>And
on the eighth day he shall take two lambs without blemish of the first year, and one ewe
lamb of the first year without blemish, and three tenth deals of fine flour for sacrifice,
kneaded with oil, and one small cup of oil. <sup>11</sup>And the priest that maketh him clean shall
present the man that is under cleansing and these offerings before the LORD at the
door of the tabernacle of witness. <sup>12</sup>And the priest shall take one lamb, and offer it for a
trespass offering, and the cup of oil, and set them apart for a special offering before the
LORD. <sup>13</sup>And they shall slay the lamb in the place where they shall kill the whole
burnt­offerings, and the sin offerings, and the holy places; for it is a sin offering. Like as
the trespass offering, it is the priest's; it is most holy. <sup>14</sup>And the priest shall take of the
blood of the trespass offering, and the priest shall put it upon the tip of the right ear of
the man that is under cleansing, and upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the
great toe of his right foot. <sup>15</sup>And the priest shall take some of the cup of oil, and pour it
upon his own left hand, <sup>16</sup>and the priest shall dip with his right finger into some of the
oil that is in his left hand, and shall sprinkle with his finger seven times before the
LORD. <sup>17</sup>And the remnant of the oil that is in his hand shall the priest put upon the tip
of the right ear of him that is under cleansing, and upon the thumb of his right hand,
and upon the great toe of his right foot upon the place of the blood of the trespass
offering. <sup>18</sup>And the remnant of the oil that is in the priest's hand shall the priest put
upon the head of him that is cleansed, and the priest shall make an atonement for him<sup>110</sup>before the LORD. <sup>19</sup>And the priest shall offer the sin offering, and make an atonement
for him that is under cleansing from his sin, and afterward the priest shall kill the
whole burnt­offering. <sup>20</sup>And the priest shall offer the whole burnt­offering and the
sacrifice upon the altar before the LORD, and the priest shall make an atonement for
him, and he shall be cleansed. 
<sup>21</sup>'And if he be poor, and his hand find not so much, he shall take one lamb for
his transgression for a separate offering, to make a propitiation for him, and a tenth
deal of fine flour mingled with oil for an offering, and one cup of oil, <sup>22</sup>and two
turtledoves or two young pigeons, as many as his hand hath found. And the one shall
be for a sin offering, and the other for a whole burnt­offering. <sup>23</sup>And he shall bring them
on the eighth day, to cleanse him unto the priest, unto the door of the tabernacle of
witness before the LORD. <sup>24</sup>And the priest shall take the lamb of the trespass offering,
and the cup of oil, and place them for a set offering before the LORD. <sup>25</sup>And he shall kill
the lamb of the trespass offering, and the priest shall take some of the blood of the
trespass  offering,  and  put  it  upon  the  tip  of  the  right  ear  of  him  that  is  under
purification, and upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the great toe of his right
foot. <sup>26</sup>And the priest shall pour of the oil upon his own left hand. <sup>27</sup>And the priest
shall sprinkle with the finger of his right hand some of the oil that is in his left hand
seven times before the LORD. <sup>28</sup>And the priest shall put of the oil that is in his hand
upon the tip of the right ear of him that is under purification, and upon the thumb of
his right hand, and upon the great toe of his right foot, upon the place of the blood of
the trespass offering. <sup>29</sup>And that which is left of the oil that is on the priest's hand, he
shall put upon the head of him that is purged, and the priest shall make an atonement
for him before the LORD. <sup>30</sup>And he shall offer one of the turtledoves, or of the young
pigeons, as he can afford it; <sup>31</sup>the one for a sin offering, and the other for a whole burnt­
offering, with the meat offering; and the priest shall make an atonement for him that is
under cleansing before the LORD. <sup>32</sup>This is the law for him in whom is the plague of
leprosy, and who cannot afford the offerings for his cleansing.' 
<sup>33</sup>And the LORD spake unto Moses and Aaron, saying, <sup>34</sup>'Whensoever ye come
into the land of Canaan, which I give to you for a possession, and I give the plague of
leprosy in the houses of the land of your possession, <sup>35</sup>then he that owneth the house
shall come and tell the priest, saying, “I have seen as it were a plague in the house”.
<sup>36</sup>Then the priest shall give command to remove the furniture of the house before the
priest come into it to see the plague, and none of the things that are in the house shall
be unclean, and afterward the priest shall go in to see the house. <sup>37</sup>And he shall look
on the plague, and behold, if the plague be in the walls of the house, with greenish or
reddish hollows, and the appearance of them beneath the surface of the walls; <sup>38</sup>then
the priest shall come out of the house to the door of the house, and the priest shall
separate the house seven days. <sup>39</sup>And the priest shall come again the seventh day, and
shall look upon the house; and behold, if the plague be spread in the walls of the house,
<sup>40</sup>then the priest shall command, and they shall take away the stones in which the
plague is, and they shall cast them into an unclean place without the city. <sup>41</sup>And they
shall scrape the house within round about, and they shall pour out the dust that is
scraped off without the city into an unclean place. <sup>42</sup>And they shall take other scraped
stones, and put them in the place of the former stones, and they shall take other
plaister, and shall plaister the house. <sup>43</sup>And if the plague come again, and break out in
the house after that they have taken away the stones, and after the house is scraped,
and after it is plaistered; <sup>44</sup>then the priest shall come, and see if the plague be spread in
the house; it is a confirmed leprosy in the house, it is unclean. <sup>45</sup>And they shall take
down the house and the timbers thereof, and the stones of it, and they shall carry forth
all the mortar without the city into an unclean place. <sup>46</sup>And he that goeth into the
house at any time during its separation shall be unclean until the even. <sup>47</sup>And he that
sleepeth in the house shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the even; and he that<sup>111</sup>eateth in the house shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the even. <sup>48</sup>And if the
priest shall arrive, and come in, and look; and behold, the plague be not at all spread in
the house after the house hath been plaistered. Then the priest shall pronounce the
house clean, because the plague is healed. <sup>49</sup>And he shall take to cleanse the house two
clean living birds, and cedar wood, and spun scarlet, and hyssop, <sup>50</sup>and he shall kill one
bird in an earthen vessel over running water. <sup>51</sup>And he shall take the cedar wood, and
the spun scarlet, and the hyssop, and the living bird, and dip them in the blood of the
bird that was slain over running water, and with them shall he sprinkle the house
seven times. <sup>52</sup>And he shall cleanse the house with the blood of the bird, and with the
running water, and with the living bird, and with the cedar wood, and with the hyssop,
and with the spun scarlet. <sup>53</sup>And he shall let the living bird go out of the city into the
field, and make an atonement for the house, and it shall be clean. 
<sup>54</sup>'This is the law concerning all manner of plague of leprosy, and scurf, <sup>55</sup>and of
the leprosy of a garment, and of a house, <sup>56</sup>and of a sore, and of a clear spot, and of a
shining one, <sup>57</sup>and of declaring in what day it is unclean, and in what day it shall be
purged; this is the law of the leprosy.'