---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 15
chapter_order_number: 15
total_chapters: 27
book_short_name: Leviticus
book_link_name: Leviticus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>15</sup>
And the LORD spake unto Moses and Aaron, saying, <sup>2</sup>'Speak unto the children
of Israel, and thou shalt say unto them, “What man soever have an issue out of his
body, his issue is unclean. <sup>3</sup>And this is the law of his uncleanness; whosoever hath an
issue out of his body, or if his body be stopped by the flow, this is his uncleanness in
him by reason of the issue, all the days of the issue of his body, whereby his body be
stopped through the issue; this is his uncleanness. <sup>4</sup>Every bed whereon he lieth that
hath the issue shall be unclean, and every thing whereon he that hath the issue sitteth
shall be unclean. <sup>5</sup>And the man that toucheth his bed shall wash his clothes, and
bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even. <sup>6</sup>And whosoever sitteth upon the
seat, whereon he sat that hath the issue, shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in
water, and be unclean until the even. <sup>7</sup>And he that toucheth the flesh of him that hath
the issue shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the
even. <sup>8</sup>And if he that hath the issue spit upon him that is clean, he shall wash his
clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even. <sup>9</sup>And any ass's
saddle, whereon the man that hath the issue mounteth, shall be unclean until the even.
<sup>10</sup>And every one that toucheth whatsoever was under him shall be unclean until the
even, and he that taketh them up shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water,
and be unclean until the even. <sup>11</sup>And as many as he that hath the issue toucheth, if he
have not rinsed his hands in water, he shall wash his clothes, and bathe his body in
water, and shall be unclean until the even. <sup>12</sup>And the vessel of earth, that he toucheth
which hath the issue, shall be broken, and a vessel of wood shall be rinsed in water,
and shall be clean. <sup>13</sup>And if he that hath the issue be cleansed of his issue, then shall
there be numbered to him seven days for his cleansing, and he shall wash his clothes,
and bathe his body in water, and shall be clean. <sup>14</sup>And on the eighth day he shall take
to him two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, and shall bring them in before the LORD,
unto the doors of the tabernacle of witness, and give them unto the priest. <sup>15</sup>And the
priest shall prepare them, the one for a sin offering, and the other for a whole burnt­
offering, and the priest shall make an atonement for him before the LORD for his issue.
<sup>16</sup>“And the man whose seed of copulation go out from him, he shall then wash all
his body, and be unclean until the even. <sup>17</sup>And every garment and every skin, whereon
shall come the seed of copulation, shall be washed with water, and be unclean until the
even. <sup>18</sup>A woman also, if a man lie with her in a bed with seed of copulation, they shall
both bathe themselves in water, and be unclean until the even. <sup>11219</sup>“And a woman that hath an issue of blood, her issue shall be in her body. She
shall be seven days in her separation; any one that toucheth her shall be unclean until
the even. <sup>20</sup>And every thing that she lieth upon in her separation shall be unclean, and
whatsoever she sitteth upon shall be unclean. <sup>21</sup>And whosoever toucheth her bed shall
wash his clothes, and bathe his body in water, and be unclean until the even. <sup>22</sup>And
whoever toucheth any vessel that she shall sit upon shall wash his clothes, and bathe
himself in water, and be unclean until the even. <sup>23</sup>And whether it be while she is upon
her bed, or upon a seat whereon she sitteth when he toucheth her, he shall be unclean
until the even. <sup>24</sup>And if any one lie with her, and her uncleanness be upon him, then
shall he be unclean seven days, and every bed that he lieth upon shall be unclean.
<sup>25</sup>“And if a woman have an issue of blood many days, not in the time of her separation,
if the blood also run after her separation, all the days of the issue of her uncleanness
shall be as the days of her separation; she shall be unclean. <sup>26</sup>And every bed whereon
she lieth all the days of her flux shall be unto her as the bed of her separation, and
every seat whereon she sitteth shall be unclean, according to the uncleanness of her
separation. <sup>27</sup>Every one that toucheth it shall be unclean, and shall wash his clothes,
and bathe his body in water, and be unclean until the even. <sup>28</sup>But if she be cleansed
from her flux, then shall be numbered to her seven days, and afterward she shall be
purged clean. <sup>29</sup>And on the eighth day she shall take two turtledoves, or two young
pigeons, and bring them unto the priest, to the door of the tabernacle of witness. <sup>30</sup>And
the priest shall offer the one for a sin offering, and the other for a whole burnt­offering,
and the priest shall make atonement for her before the LORD from her unclean flux.” 
<sup>31</sup>'And ye shall cause the children of Israel to beware of their uncleannesses, that
they die not for their uncleanness, when they defile my tabernacle that is among them.
<sup>32</sup>This is the law of him that hath an issue, and if one discharge seed of copulation, so
that he be defiled therewith; <sup>33</sup>and of her that hath the issue of blood in her separation;
and as to him that hath an issue of seed in his issue; it is a law for the male, and for
the female, and for the man that hath lain with her that is set apart.'