---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 16
chapter_order_number: 16
total_chapters: 27
book_short_name: Leviticus
book_link_name: Leviticus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>16</sup>
And the LORD spake unto Moses and Aaron after the two sons of Aaron died,
when they brought strange fire before the LORD; so they died. <sup>2</sup>And the LORD said
unto Moses, 'Speak unto Aaron thy brother, and let him not come at all times into the
holy  place  within  the  veil  before  the  propitiatory,  which  is  upon  the  ark  of  the
testimony, and he shall not die, for I will appear in a cloud upon the propitiatory. <sup>3</sup>Thus
shall Aaron come into the holy place, with a calf of the herd for a sin offering, and a ram
for a whole burnt­offering. <sup>4</sup>And he shall put on the consecrated linen tunic, and he
shall have the linen breeches upon his flesh, and shall gird himself with a linen girdle,
and shall put on the linen headtire; they are holy garments. And he shall bathe all his
body in water, and put them on. <sup>5</sup>And h e shall take of the congregation of the children
of Israel two kids of the he­goats for a sin offering, and one lamb for a whole burnt­
offering. <sup>6</sup>And Aaron shall bring the calf for his own sin offering, and make an
atonement for himself, and for his house. <sup>7</sup>And he shall take the two goats, and set
them before the LORD, by the door of the tabernacle of witness. <sup>8</sup>And Aaron shall cast
lots upon the two goats, one lot for the LORD, and the other lot for the scapegoat. <sup>9</sup>And
Aaron shall bring forward the goat upon which the lot for the LORD fell, and offer it for
a sin offering. <sup>10</sup>And the goat on which the lot of the scapegoat came shall he set alive
before the LORD, to make an atonement upon him, to send it away as a scapegoat; and
he shall let it go into the wilderness. <sup>11</sup>And Aaron shall offer the calf for his sin, and
shall make an atonement for himself, and for his house, and shall kill the calf for his
sin offering. <sup>12</sup>And he shall take the censer full of coals of fire from off the altar that is<sup>113</sup>before the LORD, and he shall fill his hands with fine compound incense, and bring it
within the veil. <sup>13</sup>And he shall put the incense upon the fire before the LORD, and the
smoke of the incense shall cover the propitiatory over the tablets of testimony; and he
shall not die. <sup>14</sup>And he shall take of the blood of the calf, and sprinkle with his finger
upon the propitiatory eastward; before the propitiatory shall he sprinkle of the blood
with his finger seven times. <sup>15</sup>And he shall kill the goat for the sin offering that is for
the people before the LORD, and he shall bring its blood within the veil, and do with his
blood as he did with the blood of the calf, and sprinkle its blood upon the mercy seat
before the propitiatory. <sup>16</sup>And he shall make an atonement for the holy place, because
of the uncleanness of the children of Israel, and because of their trespasses in all their
sins. And so shall he do for the tabernacle of witness that is established among them in
the midst of their uncleanness. <sup>17</sup>And there shall be no man in the tabernacle of
witness, when he goeth in to make an atonement in the holy place, until he have come
out, and he shall make an atonement for himself, and for his household, and for all the
congregation of the children of Israel. <sup>18</sup>And he shall go out unto the altar that is before
the LORD, and make an atonement for it, and he shall take of the blood of the calf, and
of the blood of the goat, and put it upon the horns of the altar round about. <sup>19</sup>And he
shall sprinkle of the blood upon it with his finger seven times, and purge it, and hallow
it from the uncleanness of the children of Israel. <sup>20</sup>And he shall make an end of
reconciling the holy place, and the tabernacle of witness, and the altar; and he shall
bring the live goat, <sup>21</sup>and Aaron shall lay his hands upon the head of the live goat, and
declare over it all the iniquities of the children of Israel, and all their unrighteousness,
and all their sins. And he shall lay them upon the head of the live goat, and send it
away by the hand of a ready man into the wilderness. <sup>22</sup>And the goat shall bear upon it
all their iniquities into a desert land, and Aaron shall send away the goat into the
wilderness. <sup>23</sup>And Aaron shall come into the tabernacle of witness, and shall put off the
linen garment, which he put on as he went into the holy place, and shall lay it by there.
<sup>24</sup>And he shall bathe his body in water in the holy place, and put on his garments, and
go forth, and offer the whole burnt­offering for himself, and for his house, and for the
people, as for the priests. <sup>25</sup>And the fat of the sin offering shall he offer upon the altar.
<sup>26</sup>And he that sendeth forth the goat that is set apart to be let go shall wash his
garments, and wash his body in water, and afterward come into the camp. <sup>27</sup>And the
calf for the sin offering, and the goat for the sin offering, whose blood was brought in to
make an atonement in the holy place, shall they carry forth without the camp; and they
shall burn them with fire, even their skins, and their flesh, and their dung. <sup>28</sup>And he
that burneth them shall wash his clothes, and wash his body in water; and afterward
he shall come into the camp. 
<sup>29</sup>“And this shall be a perpetual statute unto you; in the seventh month, on the
tenth day of the month, ye shall humble your souls, and do no work, the native and the
stranger that sojourneth among you. <sup>30</sup>For in this day he shall make atonement for
you, to cleanse you from all your sins before the LORD; and ye shall be purged. <sup>31</sup>This
shall be a most holy Sabbath unto you, a rest, and ye shall humble your souls; it is a
perpetual ordinance. <sup>32</sup>The priest, whomsoever they anoint, and whomsoever they
consecrate to minister in the priestly office after his father, <sup>33</sup>shall make an atonement
for the most holy place, and for the tabernacle of witness, and he shall make an
atonement for the altar, and for the priests, and he shall make an atonement for all the
congregation. <sup>34</sup>This shall be a perpetual statute unto you, to make an atonement for
the children of Israel for all their sins; it shall be done once in the year,' as the LORD
commanded Moses.