---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 17
chapter_order_number: 17
total_chapters: 27
book_short_name: Leviticus
book_link_name: Leviticus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>17</sup><sup>114</sup>And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <sup>2</sup>'Speak unto Aaron and unto his sons
and unto all the children of Israel, and thou shalt say unto them, “This is the word
which  the  LORD  hath  commanded,  saying, <sup>3</sup>Every  man  of  the  children  of  Israel,
whosoever killeth a calf or sheep or goat in the camp, or that killeth it out of the camp,
<sup>4</sup>and bringeth it not unto the door of the tabernacle of witness, to offer it for a whole
burnt­offering or peace offering unto the LORD, to be acceptable for a smell of sweet
savour, and who killeth without, and bringeth it not unto the door of the tabernacle of
witness, to bring a gift unto the LORD before the tabernacle of the LORD, then blood
shall be imputed unto that man. He hath shed blood; that soul shall be cut off from his
people; <sup>5</sup>to the end that the children of Israel may bring their sacrifices, whatsoever they
shall kill in the fields, and bring them unto the LORD, unto the priest at the door of the
tabernacle of witness, and they shall offer them for a peace offering unto the LORD.
<sup>6</sup>And the priest shall pour the blood upon the altar round about before the LORD by the
door of the tabernacle of witness, and offer the fat for a smell of sweet savour unto the
LORD. <sup>7</sup>And they shall no more offer their sacrifices unto vain things, unto whom they
go out a­whoring; it shall be a perpetual statute unto you for your generations.”
<sup>8</sup>'And thou shalt say unto them, “Every man of the house of Israel, or of the sons
of strangers which sojourn among you, whosoever offereth a whole burnt­offering or
sacrifice, <sup>9</sup>and bringeth it not unto the doors of the tabernacle of witness, to sacrifice it
unto the LORD, even that man shall be cut off from among his people. 
<sup>10</sup>' “And every man of the children of Israel, or of the sons of strangers that
sojourn among you, whosoever eateth any blood, I will even set My face against that
soul that eateth blood, and will cut him off from among his people. <sup>11</sup>For the life of the
flesh is the blood thereof, and I have given it to you upon the altar to make an
atonement for your souls; for the blood thereof shall make an atonement for the soul.
<sup>12</sup>Therefore I said unto the children of Israel, 'No soul of you shall eat blood, neither
shall the stranger that sojourneth among you eat blood. <sup>13</sup>And every man of the
children of Israel, or of the strangers that sojourn among you, who taketh any animal in
hunting, beast or fowl that is eaten, then shall he even pour out the blood, and cover it
in the dust. <sup>14</sup>For the blood of all flesh is the life thereof, and I said unto the children of
Israel, 'Ye shall not eat the blood of any flesh, for the life of all flesh is the blood thereof';
every one that eateth it shall be cut off. 
<sup>15</sup>“And every soul that eateth that which died of itself, or is taken of beasts,
either among the natives or among the strangers, he shall wash his clothes, and bathe
himself in water, and be unclean until the even; then shall he be clean. <sup>16</sup>But if he
wash not his clothes, nor wash his body in water, then he shall bear his iniquity.” '