---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 18
chapter_order_number: 18
total_chapters: 27
book_short_name: Leviticus
book_link_name: Leviticus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>18</sup>
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <sup>2</sup>'Speak unto the children of Israel,
and thou shalt say unto them, “I am the LORD your God. <sup>3</sup>After the doings of Egypt
wherein ye dwelt shall ye not do, and after the doings of the land of Canaan whither I
bring you shall ye not do, neither shall ye walk in their ordinances. <sup>4</sup>Ye shall do my
judgments, and keep mine ordinances, and walk therein; I am the LORD your God. <sup>5</sup>Ye
shall therefore keep all My statutes, and all My judgments, and do them, which if a man
do, he shall live in them; I am the LORD your God. 
<sup>6</sup>' “No man shall approach to any that is near of kin to him to uncover their
shame; I am the LORD. <sup>7</sup>The shame of thy father or the shame of thy mother shalt thou
not uncover, for she is thy mother; thou shalt not uncover her shame. <sup>8</sup>The shame of
thy father's wife shalt thou not uncover; it is thy father's shame. <sup>9</sup>The shame of thy
sister by thy father or thy mother, born at home or born abroad, even their shame shalt
thou not uncover. <sup>10</sup>The shame of thy son's daughter or of thy daughter's daughter,<sup>115</sup>even their shame shalt thou not uncover, for it is thine own shame. <sup>11</sup>The shame of thy
father's wife's daughter shalt thou not uncover; she is thy sister by the same father,
thou shalt not uncover her shame. <sup>12</sup>Thou shalt not uncover the shame of thy father's
sister, for she is near kin unto thy father. <sup>13</sup>Thou shalt not uncover the shame of thy
mother's sister, for she is near kin unto thy mother. <sup>14</sup>Thou shalt not uncover the
shame of thy father's brother, and thou shalt not approach to his wife; she is thy
relation. <sup>15</sup>Thou shalt not uncover the shame of thy daughter­in­law, for she is thy
son's wife; thou shalt not uncover her shame. <sup>16</sup>Thou shalt not uncover the shame of
thy brother's wife; it is thy brother's shame. <sup>17</sup>Thou shalt not uncover the shame of a
woman  and  her  daughter,  neither  shalt  thou  take  her  son's  daughter  and  her
daughter's  daughter  to  uncover  their  shame,  for  they  are  thy  kinswomen;  it  is
wickedness. <sup>18</sup>Neither shalt thou take a wife beside her sister, as a rival, to uncover her
shame, beside the other while she is yet living. <sup>19</sup>And thou shalt not approach unto a
woman that is put apart for her uncleanness, to uncover her shame. <sup>20</sup>And thou shalt
not lie carnally with thy neighbour's wife, to defile thyself with her. <sup>21</sup>And thou shalt
not give of thy seed to serve the ruler, neither shalt thou profane My holy name; I am
the LORD. <sup>22</sup>And thou shalt not lie with a man, as with a woman, for it is an
abomination. <sup>23</sup>Neither shalt thou lie with any four­footed beast for copulation, to be
polluted with it. Neither shall a woman present herself before any four­footed beast to
have connection with it, for it is an abomination. 
<sup>24</sup>' “Defile not ye yourselves in any of these things; for in all these the nations are
defiled which I cast out before you, <sup>25</sup>and the land is defiled; and I have recompensed
their iniquity unto them because of it, and the land is aggrieved with the nations before
you. <sup>26</sup>And ye shall keep all my statutes and mine ordinances, and shall not commit
any of these abominations; neither the native, nor the stranger that joineth himself with
you <sup>27</sup>(for all these abominations have the men of the land done which were before you,
and the land is defiled); <sup>28</sup>and lest the land be aggrieved with you, when ye pollute it, as
it was aggrieved with the nations that were before you. <sup>29</sup>For whosoever shall commit
any of these abominations, even the souls that commit them shall be cut off from
among their people. <sup>30</sup>And ye shall keep Mine ordinances, that ye commit not any of
these abominable practices, which took place before your time, and ye shall not be
defiled therein; I am the LORD your God.” ' 