---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 19
chapter_order_number: 19
total_chapters: 27
book_short_name: Leviticus
book_link_name: Leviticus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>19</sup>
And  the  LORD  spake  unto  Moses  saying, <sup>2</sup>'Speak  thou  also  unto  all  the
congregation of the children of Israel and say unto them, “Ye shall be holy, for I the
LORD your God am holy. <sup>3</sup>Let each man of you fear his father and his mother, and ye
shall keep My Sabbaths; I am the LORD your God. <sup>4</sup>Ye shall not follow idols, nor make
to yourselves molten gods; I am the LORD your God. <sup>5</sup>And if ye offer a sacrifice of peace
offering unto the LORD, ye shall offer it acceptable on your behalf. <sup>6</sup>It shall be eaten in
the day ye offer it, and on the morrow; and if aught be left until the third day, it shall be
burnt with fire. <sup>7</sup>And if it be eaten at all on the third day, it is unfit to be offered; it
shall not be accepted. <sup>8</sup>And he that eateth it shall bear his iniquity because he hath
profaned what is holy unto the LORD, and the souls that eat it shall be cut off from
among their people. 
<sup>9</sup>“And when ye reap the harvest of your land, thou shalt not wholly reap the
harvest of thy field, to harvest thy field altogether, neither shalt thou gather that which
falleth of thy harvest. <sup>10</sup>And thou shalt not go over the gathering of thy vineyard,
neither shalt thou gather every grape of thy vineyard. Thou shalt leave them for the
poor and stranger; I am the LORD your God. <sup>11611</sup>“Ye shall not steal, ye shall not lie, neither shall each swear falsely against his
neighbour. <sup>12</sup>And ye shall not swear by My name unjustly, neither shall ye profane the
holy name of your God; I am the LORD your God. <sup>13</sup>Thou shalt not act unjustly against
thy neighbour, neither spoil him; and the wages of him that is thine hireling shall not
abide with thee all night until the morning. <sup>14</sup>Thou shalt not speak evil of the deaf, nor
put a stumbling­block before the blind, and thou shalt fear the LORD thy God; I am the
LORD your God. 
<sup>15</sup>“Thou shalt not do unjustly in judgment, thou shalt not accept the person of
the poor, nor admire the person of the mighty; with justice shalt thou judge thy
neighbour. <sup>16</sup>Thou shalt not walk deceitfully among thy nation; I am the LORD your
God. <sup>17</sup>Thou shalt not hate thy brother in thine heart; thou shalt in any wise rebuke
thy neighbour, and thou shalt not bear sin because of him. <sup>18</sup>And thine hand shalt not
avenge thee, and thou shalt not be angry against the children of thy people, but thou
shalt love thy neighbour as thyself; I am the LORD. 
<sup>19</sup>“Ye shall keep My law; thou shalt not let thy cattle engender with one of a
different kind, and thou shalt not sow thy vineyard with mingled seed, neither shalt
thou put a mingled garment woven of two upon thee. 
<sup>20</sup>“And if any one lie carnally with a woman in a bed of semen, and she be a
bondmaid kept for a man, and hath not at all been redeemed, nor her freedom given
her; they shall be visited with punishment, but they shall not die because she was not
set free. <sup>21</sup>And he shall bring for his trespass unto the LORD unto the door of the
tabernacle of witness, even a ram for a trespass offering. <sup>22</sup>And the priest shall make an
atonement for him with the ram of the trespass offering before the LORD, for the sin
which he hath done, and the sin which he hath done shall be forgiven him. 
<sup>23</sup>“And when ye shall come into the land which the LORD thy God giveth thee,
and shall have planted any fruit tree, then ye shall purge away the uncleanness thereof;
three years' uncleanness shall the fruit thereof be unto you; it shall not be eaten. <sup>24</sup>And
in the fourth year all the fruit thereof shall be holy, laudable unto the LORD. <sup>25</sup>And in
the fifth year shall ye eat of the fruit thereof; the produce thereof is an increase unto
you; I am the LORD your God. 
<sup>26</sup>“Eat not upon the mountains, neither shall ye use auguries, nor divine by
means of fowls. <sup>27</sup>Ye shall not make a round cutting of the hair of your head, neither
shall ye mar the appearance of your beard. <sup>28</sup>And ye shall not make cuttings in your
body for a dead body, neither shall ye print any marks upon you; I am the LORD your
God. <sup>29</sup>Thou shalt not profane thy daughter, to cause her to be a whore; and the land
shall not go a­whoring, and the land shall be filled with iniquity. 
<sup>30</sup>“Ye shall keep My Sabbaths, and reverence My sanctuaries; I am the LORD.
<sup>31</sup>Ye shall not attend to them that have in them divining spirits, neither cleave unto
enchanters to pollute yourselves with them; I am the LORD your God. <sup>32</sup>Thou shalt rise
up before the hoary head, and honour the face of the old man and fear thy God; I am
the LORD your God. 
<sup>33</sup>“And if a stranger come unto you in your land, ye shall not vex him. <sup>34</sup>The
stranger that cometh unto you shall be among you as the native, and thou shalt love
him as thyself, for ye were strangers in the land of Egypt; I am the LORD your God.
<sup>35</sup>Ye shall not do unrighteously in judgment in measures, in weights and in scales.
<sup>36</sup>Just balances, just weights, and just liquid measure shall there be among you; I am
the LORD your God, Which brought you out of the land of Egypt. 
<sup>37</sup>“And ye shall observe all My law and all Mine ordinances, and do them; I am
the LORD your God.” ' 