---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 20
chapter_order_number: 20
total_chapters: 27
book_short_name: Leviticus
book_link_name: Leviticus
layout: chapter
---
*This chapter is missing the first handful of verses*

CHAPTER <sup>20</sup><sup>119</sup>shall defile him, or a man whereby he defileth him according to all his uncleanness; <sup>6</sup>a
soul that toucheth them shall be unclean until even; he shall not eat of the holy things
unless he wash his body in water, <sup>7</sup>and the sun go down, and then he shall be clean,
and then he shall eat of all the holy things, for it is his food. <sup>8</sup>That which dieth of itself,
or is taken of beasts, shall he not eat to defile himself therewith; I am the LORD. <sup>9</sup>And
they shall keep mine ordinances, that they bear not guilt by them, and die because of
them, if they profane them; I am the LORD, the God that sanctifieth them. <sup>10</sup>And there
shall no stranger eat of the holy things; a sojourner with a priest, or a hired servant,
shall not eat of the holy things. <sup>11</sup>But if a priest procure a soul by purchase for money,
he shall eat of his bread, and they that are born in his house; they shall eat of his
bread. <sup>12</sup>If the priest's daughter also marry a stranger, she shall not eat of the first­
fruits of the holy things. <sup>13</sup>And if a priest's daughter be a widow, or put away, and have
no seed, she shall return unto her father's house, as in her youth. She shall eat of her
father's bread, but there shall no stranger eat thereof. <sup>14</sup>And the man that eateth of
holy things unwittingly, he shall add the fifth part unto it, and shall give the holy thing
unto the priest. <sup>15</sup>And they shall not profane the holy things of the children of Israel,
which they separate unto the LORD, <sup>16</sup>and bring upon themselves the transgression of
error, by eating their holy things, for I am the LORD that sanctifieth them.” ' 
<sup>17</sup>And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <sup>18</sup>'Speak unto Aaron and to his sons
and unto all the congregation of Israel; and thou shalt say unto them, “Every man of
the children of Israel, or of the strangers that join with them in Israel, whosoever will
present his gifts according to all their agreement of theirs, and according to all their
choice,  whatsoever  they  may  bring  unto  God  for  whole  burnt­offerings, <sup>19</sup>your
acceptable offerings shall be males without blemish, of the herds, or of the sheep, or of
the goats. <sup>20</sup>Whatsoever hath a blemish in it shall they not bring, for it shall not be
acceptable for you. <sup>21</sup>And whatsoever man shall offer a peace offering unto the LORD to
discharge a vow, or in the way of freewill offering, or an offering in your feasts, of the
herds, or of the sheep, it shall be without blemish for acceptance; there shall be no
blemish therein. <sup>22</sup>One that is blind, or broken, or hath his tongue cut out, or is
troubled with warts, or hath a malignant ulcer, or scabbed, ye shall not offer these unto
the LORD, neither shall ye offer any of them for a burnt offering upon the altar of the
LORD. <sup>23</sup>And a calf or a sheep that hath the ears cut off, or that hath lost its tail, thou
shalt slay them for thyself, but for thy vow they shall not be accepted. <sup>24</sup>Thou shalt not
offer unto the LORD that which hath broken stones, or is crushed, or gelded, or
mutilated, neither shall ye sacrifice them upon your land. <sup>25</sup>Neither by a stranger's
hand  shall  ye  offer  the  gifts  of  your  God  of  all  these  things,  because  there  are
corruptions in them, there is a blemish in them; these shall not be acceptable to you.” '
<sup>26</sup>And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <sup>27</sup>'When a calf, or a sheep, or a goat,
be brought forth, then it shall be seven days under its dam; but from the eighth day
and thenceforth it shall be accepted for a gift, an offering unto the LORD. <sup>28</sup>And as for a
calf or a sheep, thou shalt not kill it and her young both in one day. <sup>29</sup>But if thou offer
a sacrifice, a vow of rejoicing unto the LORD, ye shall offer it as acceptable to you. <sup>30</sup>On
the same day it shall be eaten up; ye shall not leave of the flesh until the morrow; I am
the LORD. 
<sup>31</sup>“And ye shall keep my commandments and do them. <sup>32</sup>And ye shall not
profane the name of the Holy One, and I will be hallowed among the children of Israel. I
am LORD, Which hallow you, <sup>33</sup>that brought you out of the land of Egypt, to be your
God; I am LORD. ”