---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 23
chapter_order_number: 23
total_chapters: 27
book_short_name: Leviticus
book_link_name: Leviticus
layout: chapter
---
CHAPTER <sup>23</sup><sup>12</sup>And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <sup>2</sup>'Speak unto the children of Israel,
and thou shalt say unto them, “The feasts of the LORD which ye shall call holy
convocations, even these are My feasts. <sup>3</sup>Six days shalt thou do works, but on the
seventh day is the Sabbath, a rest, a holy convocation unto the LORD. Thou shalt not
do any work; it is a Sabbath unto the LORD in all your dwellings. 
<sup>4</sup>'These are the feasts unto the LORD, even holy convocations, which ye shall call
in their seasons. <sup>5</sup>In the fourteenth day of the month in the first month between the
evens is the LORD's Passover. <sup>6</sup>And on the fifteenth day of the same month is the feast
of unleavened bread unto the LORD; seven days ye shall eat unleavened bread. <sup>7</sup>And
the first day shall be a holy convocation unto you; ye shall do no servile work. <sup>8</sup>And ye
shall offer whole burnt­offerings unto the LORD seven days, and the seventh day shall
be a holy convocation unto you; ye shall do no servile work.' ” <sup>9</sup>And the LORD spake
unto Moses, saying, <sup>10</sup>'Speak unto the children of Israel, and thou shalt say unto them,
“When ye shall come into the land which I give unto you, and shall reap the harvest
thereof, then ye shall bring a sheaf of the first­fruits of your harvest unto the priest;
<sup>11</sup>and he shall lift up the sheaf before the LORD, to be accepted for you. <sup>12</sup>And ye shall
offer on the day when ye bring the sheaf a lamb without blemish of the first year for a
whole burnt­offering unto the LORD. <sup>13</sup>And the meat offering thereof shall be two tenth
portions of fine flour mingled with oil; it is a sacrifice unto the LORD, a smell of sweet
savour unto the LORD. And the drink offering thereof shall be the fourth part of an hin
of wine. <sup>14</sup>And ye shall eat neither bread, nor the new parched corn, until this selfsame
day until ye offer the sacrifices unto your God; it is a perpetual statute throughout your
generations in all your dwellings. 
<sup>15</sup>'And ye shall count unto you from the day after the Sabbath, from the day that
ye shall offer the sheaf of the heave offering, seven full weeks; <sup>16</sup>even until the morrow
after the last week shall ye number fifty days, and ye shall bring a new meat offering
unto the LORD. <sup>17</sup>Ye shall bring out of your habitations loaves as a heave offering two
loaves. They shall be of two tenth portions of fine flour; they shall be baked with leaven
of the first­fruits unto the LORD. <sup>18</sup>And ye shall bring with the loaves seven lambs
without blemish, of the first year, and one calf of the herd, and two rams without
blemish; and they shall be for a whole burnt­offering unto the LORD. And their meat
offerings, and their drink offerings, shall be a sacrifice, a smell of sweet savour unto the
LORD. <sup>19</sup>And they shall sacrifice one kid of the goats for a sin offering, and two lambs
of the first year for a peace offering, with the loaves of the first­fruits. <sup>20</sup>And the priest
shall place them with the loaves of the first­fruits for an offering before the LORD, with
the two lambs; they shall be holy to the LORD, they shall be for the priest that bringeth
them. <sup>21</sup>And ye shall call this day a convocation; it shall be holy unto you. Ye shall do
no servile work therein; it is a perpetual ordinance throughout in all your dwellings
throughout your generations. <sup>22</sup>And when ye reap the harvest of your land, ye shall not
fully reap the remnant of the harvest of your field when thou reapest, neither shalt thou
gather that which falleth from thy reaping. Thou shalt leave it unto the poor, and to the
stranger; I am the LORD your God.” ' 
<sup>23</sup>And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <sup>24</sup>'Speak unto the children of Israel,
saying, “In the seventh month, in the first day of the month, shall ye have a rest, a
memorial of trumpets; a holy convocation shall it be unto you. <sup>25</sup>Ye shall do no servile
work, and ye shall offer a whole burnt­offering unto the LORD.” ' 
<sup>26</sup>And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <sup>27</sup>'Also on the tenth day of this
seventh month there is a day of atonement. It shall be a holy convocation unto you,
and ye shall humble your souls and offer a whole burnt­offering unto the LORD. <sup>28</sup>Ye
shall do no work in this selfsame day, for this is a day of atonement for you, to make
atonement for you before the LORD your God. <sup>29</sup>Every soul that shall not be humbled
in that day, he shall be cut off from among his people. <sup>30</sup>And every soul that doeth work
in that day, that soul shall be destroyed from among his people. <sup>31</sup>Ye shall do no<sup>12</sup>manner of work; it is a perpetual statute throughout your generations in all your
dwellings. <sup>32</sup>It shall be unto you a holy Sabbath, and ye shall humble your souls; from
the ninth day of the month from even unto even shall ye keep your Sabbaths.' 
<sup>33</sup>And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <sup>34</sup>'Speak unto the children of Israel,
saying, “In the fifteenth day of this seventh month there shall be a feast of tabernacles
for seven days unto the LORD. <sup>35</sup>And on the first day shall be a holy convocation; ye
shall do no servile work. <sup>36</sup>Seven days shall ye offer whole burnt­offerings unto the
LORD, and the eighth day shall be a holy convocation unto you, and ye shall offer whole
burnt­offerings unto the LORD. It is a time of release; ye shall do no servile work. 
<sup>37</sup>“These are the feasts of the LORD, which ye shall call holy convocations, to
offer burnt offerings unto the LORD, whole burnt­offerings and their meat offerings and
their drink offerings, that for each day upon its day; <sup>38</sup>beside the Sabbaths of the LORD,
and besides your gifts, and beside all your vows, and beside your freewill offerings,
which ye shall give unto the LORD. 
<sup>39</sup>“Also  in  the  fifteenth  day  of  this  seventh  month,  when  ye  have  finished
gathering in the fruits of the earth, ye shall keep a feast unto the LORD seven days; on
the first day shall be a rest, and on the eighth day a rest. <sup>40</sup>And ye shall take you on the
first day goodly fruit of trees, branches of palm trees, and thick boughs of trees, and
willows, and branches of osiers, to rejoice before the LORD your God seven days in the
year. <sup>41</sup>It is a perpetual statute for your generations; ye shall keep it in the seventh
month. <sup>42</sup>Ye shall dwell in tabernacles seven days; every native in Israel shall dwell in
tents; <sup>43</sup>that your generations may see that I made the children of Israel to dwell in
tents, when I brought them out of the land of Egypt; I am the LORD your God.” ' 
<sup>44</sup>And Moses declared unto the children of Israel the feasts of the LORD.