---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 24
chapter_order_number: 24
total_chapters: 27
book_short_name: Leviticus
book_link_name: Leviticus
layout: chapter
---


CHAPTER <sup>24</sup>
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <sup>2</sup>'Command the children of Israel, and
let them take for thee pure oil olive beaten for the light, to burn a lamp continually,
<sup>3</sup>without the veil in the tabernacle of witness; and Aaron and his sons shall burn it from
the  evening  until  the  morning  before  the  LORD  continually,  a  perpetual  statute
throughout your generations. <sup>4</sup>Ye shall burn the lamps upon the pure lampstand
before the LORD until the morrow. 
<sup>5</sup>“And ye shall take fine flour, and make twelve loaves thereof; of two tenth parts
shall be each loaf. <sup>6</sup>And ye shall put them in two rows, each row six loaves, upon the
pure table before the LORD. <sup>7</sup>And ye shall put pure frankincense and salt upon each
row, and these things shall be for loaves for a memorial set forth before the LORD. <sup>8</sup>On
the Sabbath day they shall be set forth before the LORD continually before the children
of Israel for an everlasting covenant. <sup>9</sup>And they shall be for Aaron and his sons, and
they shall eat them in the holy place, for this is their most holy portion of the offerings
made unto the LORD, a perpetual statute.' 
<sup>10</sup>And there went out a son of an Israelitish woman, and he was the son of an
Egyptian man among the children of Israel; and the son of the Israelitish woman and a
man who was an Israelite strove together in the camp. <sup>11</sup>And the son of the Israelitish
woman cursed, and named THE NAME; and they brought him unto Moses. (Now his
mother's name was Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan.) <sup>12</sup>And they
put him in ward to judge him by the commandment of the LORD. <sup>13</sup>And the LORD
spake unto Moses, saying, <sup>14</sup>'Bring forth him that hath cursed without the camp; and
all that heard him shall lay their hands upon his head, and all the congregation shall
stone him. <sup>15</sup>And speak unto the children of Israel, and thou shalt say unto them,
“Whosoever shall curse God shall bear his sin. <sup>16</sup>And he that nameth the Name of the
LORD, let him surely die. Let all the congregation stone him with stones; whether he be<sup>12</sup>a stranger or a native, let him die for naming the Name of the LORD. <sup>17</sup>And whosoever
shall smite a man, and he die, let him die the death. <sup>18</sup>And whosoever shall smite a
beast, and it die, let him render life for life. <sup>19</sup>And whosoever shall inflict a blemish in
his neighbour, as he hath unto him, so shall it be done to him in return; <sup>20</sup>bruise for
bruise, eye for eye, tooth for tooth. As any may inflict a blemish in a man, so shall it be
rendered unto him. <sup>21</sup>Whosoever shall smite a man, and he die, he shall die the death.
<sup>22</sup>There shall be one judgment, as well for the stranger as for the native; for I am the
LORD your God.” ' <sup>23</sup>And Moses spake unto the children of Israel, and they brought
forth him that had cursed out of the camp and stoned him with stones. And the
children of Israel did as the LORD commanded Moses.