---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 25
chapter_order_number: 25
total_chapters: 27
book_short_name: Leviticus
book_link_name: Leviticus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>25</sup>
And the LORD spake unto Moses in the mount Sinai, saying, <sup>2</sup>'Speak unto the
children of Israel, and thou shalt say unto them, “Whensoever ye have entered into the
land which I give you, then shall the land rest which I give you for the Sabbaths thereof
unto the LORD. <sup>3</sup>Six years thou shalt sow thy field, and six years thou shalt prune thy
vine, and gather in the fruit thereof. <sup>4</sup>But in the seventh year shall be a Sabbath; it
shall be a rest unto the land, a Sabbath unto the LORD; thou shalt neither sow thy
field, nor prune thy vine. <sup>5</sup>And that which groweth of its own accord of thy field shalt
thou not gather, neither shalt thou gather fully the grapes of thy dedication; it shall be
a year of rest unto the land. <sup>6</sup>And the Sabbaths of the land shall be meats for thee, and
for thy manservant, and for thy maidservant, and for thy hired servant, and for the
stranger that abideth with thee; <sup>7</sup>and for thy cattle, and for the wild beasts that are in
thy land, shall every fruit thereof be for meat. 
<sup>8</sup>' “And thou shalt reckon seven Sabbaths of years unto thee, seven times seven
years. Seven weeks of years shall they be unto thee, forty and nine years. <sup>9</sup>In the
seventh month, on the tenth day of the month, shall ye make a proclamation with the
sound of a trumpet in all your land. On the day of atonement shall ye make a
proclamation with a trumpet in all your land. <sup>10</sup>And ye shall hallow the year, the fiftieth
year, and proclaim release upon the land unto all the inhabitants thereof; it shall be
given a year of release, a jubilee unto you, and each man shall depart unto his
possession, and ye shall go each unto his family. <sup>11</sup>This is a jubilee of release; the year
shall be the fiftieth year unto you; ye shall not sow, neither reap the produce that
groweth of itself from the land, nor shall ye gather the dedicated fruits thereof. <sup>12</sup>For it
is a jubilee of release; it shall be holy unto you; ye shall eat the fruits thereof out of the
fields. 
<sup>13</sup>' “In the year of the release, even the jubilee thereof, shall each one return unto
his possession. <sup>14</sup>And if thou sell a possession unto thy neighbour, or buy aught of thy
neighbour, let not a man oppress his neighbour. <sup>15</sup>According to the number of years
after the jubilee thou shalt buy of thy neighbour, according to the number of years of
the fruits he shall sell unto thee. <sup>16</sup>According as there may be a greater number of
years, he shall increase the value of the possession; and according as there may be a
lesser number of years, he shall diminish the value of his possession; for according to
the number of his crops, so shall he sell unto thee. <sup>17</sup>Let not a man oppress his
neighbour, and thou shalt fear the LORD thy God; I am the LORD thy God. <sup>18</sup>And ye
shall keep all Mine ordinances and all My judgments, and do ye observe them; and ye
shall keep them, and dwell in the land securely. <sup>19</sup>And the land shall yield its increase,
and ye shall eat to fullness, and dwell therein securely. <sup>20</sup>And if ye shall say, 'What
shall we eat in this seventh year, if we sew not, neither gather our fruits? <sup>21</sup>then I will
send My blessing upon you in the sixth year, and the land shall give its fruits for three
years. <sup>22</sup>And ye shall sow the eighth year, and eat of old fruit until the ninth year; until<sup>12</sup>her fruits come in ye shall eat of fruits of the old. <sup>23</sup>This land shall not be sold for ever;
for the land is Mine, for ye are strangers and sojourners before me. <sup>24</sup>And in every land
of your possession ye shall allow redemptions for the land. <sup>25</sup>And if thy brother that is
with thee be poor, and have sold away of his possession, and his kinsman that is nigh
unto him come, then shall he redeem the possession which his brother sold. <sup>26</sup>And if a
man hath no near kinsman, and he prosper with his hand, and find money enough,
even his redemption, <sup>27</sup>then shall he count the years the years of the sale thereof, and
give the overplus unto the man to whom he sold it, and he shall return unto his
possession. <sup>28</sup>But if his hand find not that which is sufficient to restore it unto him,
then he that bought the possessions shall have them until the sixth year of the release,
and the owner shall return unto his possession. 
<sup>29</sup>' “And if a man sell an inhabited dwelling in a walled city, then shall there be
redemption of it until the time be fulfilled; the time of the redemption thereof shall be a
whole year. <sup>30</sup>And if it be not redeemed until a full year be completed of the time
thereof, then the house that is in the walled city shall be surely confirmed to him that
bought it throughout his generations; and it shall not go out in the release. <sup>31</sup>But the
houses in the villages which have no wall round about them shall be counted as the
fields of the country; they shall always be redeemable, and they shall go out in the
release. <sup>32</sup>And the cities of the Levites, the houses of the cities in their possession, shall
always be redeemable unto the Levites. <sup>33</sup>And if any man redeem a house of the Levites,
then shall their sale of the houses of their possession go out in the release, for the
houses of the cities of the Levites are their possession among the children of Israel.
<sup>34</sup>And the lands set apart for their cities shall not be sold, for it is their perpetual
possession. 
<sup>35</sup>' “And if thy brother that is with thee be waxen poor, and he fail in substance
with thee, thou shalt help him as a stranger and a sojourner, and thy brother shall live
with thee. <sup>36</sup>Thou shalt not receive usury of him, nor increase, and thou shalt fear thy
God. I am the LORD; and thy brother shall live with thee. <sup>37</sup>Thou shalt not lend him
thy money upon usury, nor lend him thy victuals for increase. <sup>38</sup>I am the LORD your
God, which brought you forth out of the land of Egypt, to give you the land of Canaan,
to be your God. 
<sup>39</sup>' “And if thy brother that is with thee be humbled, and be sold unto thee, he
shall not serve thee with the servitude of a bondservant. <sup>40</sup>He shall be with thee as a
hired servant, or a sojourner; he shall work for thee until the year of release; <sup>41</sup>and he
shall go out in the release, and his children with him, and shall go to his family; and
unto the possession of his fathers shall he hasten back. <sup>42</sup>For these are my servants,
which I brought forth out of the land of Egypt; such a one shall not be sold as a
servant. <sup>43</sup>Thou shalt not oppress him with labour, and thou shalt fear the LORD thy
God. <sup>44</sup>And whatsoever number of number of bondmen and bondmaids thou shalt
have, of the nations that are round about thee shalt thou buy them. <sup>45</sup>And the children
of the sojourners that are among you, of these shall ye buy, and of their families, all
that be in your lands; let them be unto you for a possession. <sup>46</sup>And ye shall distribute
them unto your children after you, and they shall be held in possession by you for ever.
But of your brethren the children of Israel, one shall not oppress his brother in labours.
<sup>47</sup>' “And if a stranger or a sojourner wax rich with thee, and thy brother that is in
distress be sold unto the stranger or the sojourner that is with thee, or to a proselyte by
extraction, <sup>48</sup>after that he is sold unto him there shall be redemption unto him; one of
his brethren shall redeem him. <sup>49</sup>A brother of his father, or son of his father's brother,
shall redeem him, or let one of his near tribe redeem him; and if he be rich and redeem
himself, <sup>50</sup>then shall he reckon with him that bought him from the year that he sold
himself unto him until the year of release. And the money of his purchase shall be as
that of a hireling; he shall be with him from year to year. <sup>51</sup>And if any have a greater
number of years, according to these shall he pay his redemption out of the money that<sup>12</sup>he was bought for. <sup>52</sup>And there be but a little time left of the years unto the year of
release, then shall he reckon unto him according to his years, and shall pay his
redemption <sup>53</sup>as a hired servant. He shall be with him from year to year; thou shalt not
oppress him with labour in thy sight. <sup>54</sup>And if he pay not his redemption accordingly,
he shall go out in the year of his release, he and his children with him. <sup>55</sup>For the
children of Israel are My servants, whom I brought forth out of the land of Egypt; I am
the LORD your God.