---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 26
chapter_order_number: 26
total_chapters: 27
book_short_name: Leviticus
book_link_name: Leviticus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>26</sup>
' “Ye shall not make unto yourselves gods made with hands nor graven, neither
shall ye rear up a pillar for yourselves, neither shall ye set up a stone for an object in
your land to worship it; I am the LORD your God. <sup>2</sup>Ye shall keep My Sabbaths and
reverence My sanctuaries; I am the LORD. 
<sup>3</sup>'If ye walk in My statutes, and keep My commandments, and do them, <sup>4</sup>then I
will give you the rain in due season, and the land shall yield her fruits, and the trees of
the field shall yield their fruit. <sup>5</sup>And your threshing shall overtake the vintage, and your
vintage shall overtake your seed time. And ye shall eat your bread to the full, and dwell
in your land safely, and war shall not go through the land. <sup>6</sup>And I will give peace in
your land, and ye shall sleep, and none shall make you afraid. And I will destroy the
evil beasts out of your land, <sup>7</sup>and ye shall chase your enemies, and they shall fall before
you by the sword. <sup>8</sup>And five of you shall chase an hundred, and an hundred of you
shall chase tens of thousands; and your enemies shall fall before you by the sword.
<sup>9</sup>And I will have respect unto you, and increase you, and multiply you, and establish My
covenant with you. <sup>10</sup>And ye shall eat the old, and bring the old out of the new. <sup>11</sup>And I
will set my tabernacle among you, and my soul shall not abhor you; <sup>12</sup>and I will walk
among you, and will be your God, and ye shall be My people. <sup>13</sup>I am the LORD your
God, which brought you forth out of the land of Egypt, where ye were bondmen; and I
have broken the band of your yoke, and brought you forth openly. <sup>14</sup>But if ye will not
hearken unto Me, nor obey these Mine ordinances; <sup>15</sup>but disobey them, and your soul
abhor My judgments, that ye keep not all My commandments, to break My covenant;
<sup>16</sup>then will I do thus unto you; I will even bring upon you perplexity, and the scab, and
the fever which causeth your eyes to waste away, and consumeth your life. And ye
shall sow your seeds in vain, and your enemies shall eat them. <sup>17</sup>And I will set My face
against you, and ye shall fail before your enemies; and they that hate you shall pursue
you, and ye shall flee when none pursueth you. <sup>18</sup>And if ye will not hearken unto Me,
then I will chastise you yet more, even seven times, for your sins. <sup>19</sup>And I will break
down the haughtiness of your pride, and I will make your heaven iron, and your earth
as it were brass. <sup>20</sup>And your strength shall be in vain, and your land shall not yield her
seed, neither shall the tree of your field yield the fruit thereof. <sup>21</sup>And if after this ye walk
perversely, and be not willing to obey Me, I will further bring seven plagues according to
your sins. <sup>22</sup>And I will send upon you the wild beasts of the land, and they shall devour
you and consume your cattle. And I will make you few in number, and your highways
shall be desolate. <sup>23</sup>And if hereupon ye be not chastened, but walk perversely toward
Me, <sup>24</sup>then will I walk with you with a perverse spirit, and I will also smite you seven
times for your sins. <sup>25</sup>And I will bring a sword upon you, that shall avenge the cause of
My covenant. And ye shall flee for refuge unto your cities, and I will send forth death
against you, and ye shall be delivered into the hands of your enemies. <sup>26</sup>When I afflict
you with the famine of bread, then ten women shall bake your bread in one oven, and
they shall deliver again your loaves by weight, and ye shall eat, and not be satisfied.
<sup>27</sup>And if hereupon ye will not obey me, but walk perversely toward Me, <sup>28</sup>then will I walk
with you with a froward mind, and I will chastise you sevenfold according to your sins.
<sup>29</sup>And ye shall eat the flesh of your sons, and the flesh of your daughters shall ye eat.
<sup>30</sup>And I will render your pillars desolate, and utterly destroy your wooden images made<sup>12</sup>with hands, and lay your carcases upon the carcases of your idols, and My soul shall
abhor you. <sup>31</sup>And I will lay your cities waste, and make your sanctuaries desolate, and I
will not smell the savour of your sacrifices. <sup>32</sup>And I will lay your land desolate, and your
enemies which dwell therein shall wonder at it. <sup>33</sup>And I will scatter you among the
nations, and the sword shall come upon you and consume you, and your land shall be
desolate and your cities desolate. <sup>34</sup>Then shall the land enjoy her Sabbaths all the days
of her desolation. <sup>35</sup>And ye shall be in your enemies' land; even then shall the land keep
her Sabbaths, and the land shall enjoy her Sabbaths all the days of her desolation. It
shall keep Sabbaths, which it kept not among your Sabbaths, when ye dwelt upon it.
<sup>36</sup>And unto those that are left alive of you I will bring bondage into their heart in the
land of their enemies. And the sound of a shaken leaf shall chase them, and they shall
flee, as fleeing from war; they shall fall when none pursueth them. <sup>37</sup>And brother shall
not heed brother, as in war, when none pursueth, and ye shall not be able to withstand
your enemies. <sup>38</sup>And ye shall perish among the nations, and the land of your enemies
shall eat you up. <sup>39</sup>And they that are left of you shall perish because of their sins, and
because of the sins of their fathers; and in the land of their fathers shall they pine
away. <sup>40</sup>And they shall confess their iniquities, and the iniquities of their fathers, that
they have transgressed and neglected Me, and that they have walked contrary before
Me, <sup>41</sup>and I have walked with them with a perverse mind, and I will destroy them in the
land of their enemies. And then shall their uncircumcised heart be ashamed, and then
shall they accept of their sins. <sup>42</sup>And I will remember the covenant of Jacob, and the
covenant of Isaac; and the covenant of Abraham will I remember. <sup>43</sup>And I will remember
the land, the land also shall be left of them. Then shall the land enjoy her Sabbaths,
while she is desolate through them, and they shall accept of their iniquities, even
because  they  neglected  My  judgments,  and  in  their  soul  they  abhorred  Mine
ordinances. <sup>44</sup>And yet not even thus, when they were in the land of their enemies, did I
overlook them, neither did I abhor them to consume them, to break My covenant with
them; for I am the LORD their God. <sup>45</sup>And I will remember their former covenant, when
I brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of servitude in the sight
of the nations, that I might be their God; I am the LORD.” ' <sup>46</sup>These are My judgments
and Mine ordinances and the law, which the LORD gave between him and the children
of Israel in the mount of Sinai by the hand of Moses.