---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 27
chapter_order_number: 27
total_chapters: 27
book_short_name: Leviticus
book_link_name: Leviticus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>27</sup>
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <sup>2</sup>'Speak unto the children of Israel;
and thou shalt say unto them, “Whosoever shall vow a vow unto the LORD as the
estimation of his soul, <sup>3</sup>the estimation shall be of a male from twenty years old even
unto sixty years, even his estimation shall be fifty didrachmas of silver after the
standard of the sanctuary. <sup>4</sup>And the estimation of a female shall be thirty didrach mas.
<sup>5</sup>And if it be from five years old even unto twenty years old, then the estimation shall be
of the male twenty didrachmas and for a female ten didrachmas. <sup>6</sup>And if it be from a
month  old  even  unto  five  years  old,  then  the  estimation  shall  be  of  a  male  five
didrachmas and for a female three didrachmas of silver. <sup>7</sup>And if it be from sixty years
old and above, if it be a male, his estimation shall be fifteen didrachmas of silver, and if
a female, then ten didrachmas. <sup>8</sup>And if the male be too poor for the estimation, then he
shall stand before the priest, and the priest shall value him; according to what the man
can afford who hath vowed shall the priest value him. <sup>9</sup>But if it were from the cattle
that are offered as a gift unto the LORD, whosoever shall offer one of these unto the
LORD, it shall be holy. <sup>10</sup>He shall not change it, a good for a bad or a bad for a good,
and if he do at all change it, a beast for beast, then it and the substitute thereof shall be
holy. <sup>11</sup>And if it were any unclean beast, of which none are offered as a gift unto the<sup>12</sup>LORD, then he shall set the beast before the priest, <sup>12</sup>and the priest shall make a
valuation between the good and the bad; and according as the priest shall value it, so
shall it stand. <sup>13</sup>And if it will at all be redeemed, then he shall add the fifth part thereof
unto its estimation. 
<sup>14</sup>'And whatsoever man shall sanctify his house as holy unto the LORD, then the
priest shall make a valuation of it between the good or the bad; as the priest shall
estimate it, so shall it stand. <sup>15</sup>And if he that hath sanctified it redeem his house, then
he shall add the fifth part of the money of thine estimation unto it, and it shall be his.
<sup>16</sup>'And if a man shall sanctify unto the LORD some part of the field of his possession,
then the estimation thereof shall be according to the seed thereof; fifty didrachmas of
silver for a homer of barley. <sup>17</sup>And if he sanctify his field from the year of release,
according to its estimation it shall stand. <sup>18</sup>And if he sanctify his field in the latter time
after the release, then the priest shall reckon unto him the money according to the
years that remain even unto the year of release, and it shall be abated as an equivalent
from his full estimation. <sup>19</sup>And if he that sanctified the field would redeem it, he shall
add the fifth part of the money unto the estimation thereof, and it shall be his. <sup>20</sup>And if
he redeem not the field, but sell the field unto another man, he shall not after redeem it.
<sup>21</sup>But the field after the release shall be holy unto the LORD. 
<sup>22</sup>'And if he sanctify unto the LORD a field which he hath bought, which is not of
the field of his possession, <sup>23</sup>then the priest shall reckon unto him the full estimation
from the year of release, and he shall pay that estimation in that day as holy unto the
LORD. <sup>24</sup>And in the year of release the land shall be restored unto the man of whom the
other bought it, even him to whom the possession of the land did belong. <sup>25</sup>And every
estimation shall be by holy weights; the didrachma shall be twenty obols. 
<sup>26</sup>'And every firstling which shall be brought forth among thy cattle shall be the
LORD's, and no man shall sanctify it, whether it be calf or sheep; it is the LORD's.
<sup>27</sup>But if it be of an unclean beast, then according to the estimation thereof shall he add
a fifth part thereto, and it shall be his. And if he redeem it not, then it shall be sold
according to the estimation thereof. <sup>28</sup>And every devoted thing that a man shall devote
unto the LORD of all that he hath, whether of man, or beast, or of the field of his
possession, he shall not sell it nor redeem it; every devoted thing shall be most holy
unto the LORD. <sup>29</sup>And nothing that is devoted of men shall be redeemed, but it shall
surely be put to death. 
<sup>30</sup>'Every tithe of the land, both of the seed of the land, and of the fruit of the tree,
is the LORD's; it is holy unto the LORD. <sup>31</sup>But if a man at all redeem his tithe, he shall
add thereto the fifth part, and it shall be his. <sup>32</sup>And every tithe of oxen, and of sheep,
and everything that passeth in the numbering under the rod, the tenth shall be holy
unto the LORD. <sup>33</sup>Thou shalt not change good for bad, nor bad for good; but if thou
change  it  at  all,  then  that  which  is  changed  also  shall  be  holy;  it  shall  not  be
redeemed.”' 
<sup>34</sup>These are the commandments, which the LORD commanded Moses for the
children of Israel in the mount Sinai. 