---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 2
chapter_order_number: 02
chapter_word: Two
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_long_name: The First Book of Moses, called Genesis
layout: chapter
---

<sup>1</sup>And the heaven and the earth were finished, and all the order of them. <sup>2</sup>And on the sixth day God ended His works which He had made; and He ceased on the seventh day from all His works which He had made. <sup>3</sup>And God blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it, because that in it He ceased from all His works which God had begun to make.

<sup>4</sup>This is the book of the generation of heaven and earth when they were made, in the day that the LORD God made the heaven and the earth, <sup>5</sup>and all herb of the field before it was upon the earth, and all grass of the field before it sprang up; for God had not sent rain upon the earth, and there was not a man to till the ground. <sup>6</sup>But there went up a fountain from the earth, and watered the whole face of the earth. <sup>7</sup>And God formed man of dust of the earth, and breathed into his face a breath of life; and the man became a living soul. 

<sup>8</sup>And the LORD God planted a garden eastward in Eden, and there He put the man whom He had formed. <sup>9</sup>And out of the ground made God to spring up also every tree that is pleasant to the sight, and good for food; the tree of life also in the midst of the garden, and the tree of what is to be known of good and evil. <sup>10</sup>And a river goeth out of Eden to water the garden; from thence it parteth into four heads. <sup>11</sup>The name of the one is Pison; this it is that compasseth the whole land of Havilah, where there is gold. <sup>12</sup>And the gold of that land is good, and there also is carbuncle and emerald. <sup>13</sup>And the name of the second river is Geon; this it is that compasseth the whole land of Ethiopia. <sup>14</sup>And the third river is the Tigris; this is that which goeth over against the Assyrians. And the fourth river is Euphrates. <sup>15</sup>And the LORD God took the man whom He had formed and put him in the garden of delight, to work it and to keep it. <sup>16</sup>And the LORD God commanded Adam, saying, 'Of every tree which is in the garden thou mayest eat for food, <sup>17</sup>but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, ye shall not eat of it; but in whatsoever day ye shall eat thereof, by death shall ye die'.

<sup>18</sup>And the LORD God said, 'It is not good that the man should be alone; let Us make for him an help meet for him'. <sup>19</sup>And out of the earth God formed yet further all the wild beasts of the field, and all the fowls of the heaven, and brought them unto Adam to see what he would call them, and whatsoever Adam called any living creature, that was the name thereof. <sup>20</sup>And Adam gave names to all the cattle, and to all the fowls of the heaven, and to all the wild beasts of the field; but for Adam there was not found an help like unto him. <sup>21</sup>And God brought a trance upon Adam, and he slept, and He took one of his ribs, and filled up the flesh in stead thereof. <sup>22</sup>And the rib which He had taken from Adam, did the LORD God form into a woman, and brought her unto Adam. <sup>23</sup>And Adam said, 'This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh; she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of her Man'. <sup>24</sup>Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife, and they two shall become one flesh. <sup>25</sup>And the two were naked, both Adam and his wife, and were not ashamed.
