---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 3
chapter_order_number: 03
chapter_word: Three
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_long_name: The First Book of Moses, called Genesis
layout: chapter
---

<sup>1</sup>Now the serpent was the wisest of all the wild beasts of the earth which the LORD God had made. And the serpent said unto the woman, 'Wherefore hath God said, Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden?' <sup>2</sup>And the woman said unto the serpent, 'We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden, <sup>3</sup>but of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden God hath said, “Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it, lest ye die” '. <sup>4</sup>And the serpent said unto the woman, 'By death ye shall not die, <sup>5</sup>for God doth know that in the day ye eat thereof, then your eyes shall be opened, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil'. <sup>6</sup>And the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was pleasant for the eyes to look upon, and fair to contemplate; and she took of the fruit thereof, and did eat, and gave it also to her husband with her, and they did eat. <sup>7</sup>And the eyes of them both were opened, and they knew that they were naked, and they sewed fig leaves together, and made themselves aprons to go about them. 

<sup>8</sup>And they heard the voice of the LORD God walking in the garden in the cool of the day; and Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the LORD God amongst the trees of the garden. <sup>9</sup>And the LORD God called unto Adam, and said unto him, 'Adam, where art thou?'  <sup>10</sup>And he said unto Him, 'I heard Thy voice as Thou walkedst in the garden, and I was afraid, because I was naked, and I hid myself'. <sup>11</sup>And God said unto him, 'Who told thee that thou wast naked, except thou hast eaten of the tree whereof only I commanded thee not to eat?' <sup>12</sup>And Adam said, 'The woman whom Thou gavest to be with me, she gave me of the tree, and I did eat'. <sup>13</sup>And the LORD God said unto the woman, 'What is this that thou hast done?' And the woman said, 'The serpent beguiled me, and I did eat'. <sup>14</sup>And the LORD God said unto the serpent, 'Because thou hast done this, thou art cursed above all the cattle and all the wild beasts of the earth; upon thy breast and thy belly shalt thou go, and earth shalt thou eat all the days of thy life. <sup>15</sup>And I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed; he shall watch thy head, and thou shalt watch his heel.' <sup>16</sup>And unto the woman He said, 'I will greatly multiply thy pains and thy groaning. In pains thou shalt bring forth children; and thy recourse shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee.' <sup>17</sup>And unto Adam He said, 'Because thou hast hearkened unto the voice of thy wife, and hast eaten of the tree of which alone I commanded thee not to eat, cursed is the ground in thy labours; in pains shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life. <sup>18</sup>Thorns and thistles shall it bring forth to thee, and thou shalt eat the herb of the field. <sup>19</sup>In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat thy bread till thou return unto the ground out of which thou wast taken; for earth thou art, and unto earth shalt thou return.' <sup>20</sup>And Adam called his wife's name 'Life', because she is the mother of all the living. 

<sup>21</sup>Unto Adam also and to his wife did the LORD God make garments of skin, and clothed them. <sup>22</sup>And God said, 'Behold, Adam is become as one of Us, to know good and evil; and now, lest he put forth his hand, and take of the tree of life, and eat, and live for ever – ' <sup>23</sup>and the LORD God sent him forth from the garden of delight, to till the ground from whence he was taken. <sup>24</sup>And He cast out Adam, and caused him to dwell over against the garden of delight, and He stationed the Cherubim, and the fiery sword which turneth about to keep the way of the tree of life.
