---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 6
chapter_order_number: 06
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

<sup>1</sup>And it came to pass, when men began to be many on the earth, and daughters were born unto them, <sup>2</sup>that the sons of God saw the daughters of men that they were fair, and they took them wives of all whom they chose. <sup>3</sup>And the LORD God said, 'My Spirit shall not abide in these men for ever, for they are flesh; but their days shall be an hundred and twenty years'. <sup>4</sup>Now there were giants upon the earth in those days, and after that, when the sons of God went in unto the daughters of men, they bare children to them; those were the giants of old, the men of renown.

<sup>5</sup>And the LORD God saw that the wickedness of men was multiplied upon the earth, and that every one in his heart thinketh intently upon evil all the days. <sup>6</sup>And God laid it to heart that He had made man on the earth, and He thought upon it. <sup>7</sup>And God said, 'I will blot out man whom I have made from the face of the earth, even man with cattle and creeping things with fowls of the heaven, for it repenteth Me that I have made them.' <sup>8</sup>But Noah found grace before the LORD God. 

<sup>9</sup>And these are the generations of Noah. Noah was a just man, perfect in his generation; Noah was well­pleasing to God. <sup>10</sup>And Noah begat three sons, Shem, Ham and Japheth. <sup>11</sup>Now the earth was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with unrighteousness. <sup>12</sup>And the LORD God looked upon the earth, and it was utterly corrupt, for all flesh had utterly corrupted his way upon the earth. <sup>13</sup>And the LORDGod said unto Noah, 'The time of every man is come before Me, for the earth is filled with unrighteousness through them; and behold, I shall utterly destroy them, and the earth. <sup>14</sup>Make thee therefore an ark of squared timber; with rooms shalt thou make the ark, and shalt pitch it within and without with pitch. <sup>15</sup>And thus shalt thou make the ark; the length of the ark three hundred cubits, and the breadth fifty cubits, and the height of it thirty cubits. <sup>16</sup>Thou shalt narrow the ark in making it, and in a cubit shalt thou finish it above, and the door of the ark shalt thou make on the side; with lower, second and third stories shalt thou make it. <sup>17</sup>And behold, I shall bring the floodwater upon the earth, to destroy all flesh wherein is the breath of life under the heaven, and whatsoever things are upon the earth shall die. <sup>18</sup>But with thee will I establish My covenant, and thou shalt enter into the ark, thou, and thy sons, and thy wife, and thy sons' wives, with thee. <sup>19</sup>And of all the cattle, and of all the creeping things, and of all the wild beasts, even of all flesh shalt thou bring two by two of all into the ark, that thou mayest feed them with thyself; they shall be male and female. <sup>20</sup>Of all winged fowls after their kind, and of all cattle after their kind, and of all creeping things that creep upon the earth after their kind, two by two of all they shall come in to thee to be fed with thee, male and female. <sup>21</sup>And thou shalt take unto thee of all food which ye eat, and thou shalt gather it to thee, and it shall be for thee and for them to eat.'  <sup>22</sup>And Noah did all things whatsoever the LORD God commanded him, so did he.
