---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 12
chapter_order_number: 12
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

<sup>1</sup>And the LORD said unto Abram, 'Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy father's house, and come into the land that I shall shew thee. <sup>2</sup>And I will make thee into a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great; and thou shalt be blessed. <sup>3</sup>And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse them that curse thee; and in thee shall all the tribes of the earth be blessed.'  <sup>4</sup>And Abram departed, as the LORD had spoken unto him, and Lot went with him. And Abram was seventy and five years old when he departed out of Haran. <sup>5</sup>And Abram took Sarai his wife, and Lot his brother's son, and all their substance, as much as they had gotten, and every soul that they had gotten in Haran, and they went forth to go into the land of Canaan. <sup>6</sup>And Abram passed through the length of the land unto the place Sichem, unto the high oak. And the Canaanites then dwelt in the land. <sup>7</sup>And the LORD appeared unto Abram, and said unto him, 'Unto thy seed will I give this land'. And there builded Abram an altar unto the LORD, Who appeared unto him. <sup>8</sup>And he removed from thence unto the mountain on the east of Bethel, and there pitched his tent in Bethel toward the sea, and Hai toward the east. And there he builded an altar unto the LORD, and called upon the name of the LORD. <sup>9</sup>And Abram departed, and went, and encamped in the wilderness.

<sup>10</sup>And there was a famine in the land, and Abram went down into Egypt to sojourn there, for the famine prevailed in the land. <sup>11</sup>And it came to pass, when Abram was come near to enter into Egypt, that Abram said unto Sarai his wife, 'I know that thou art a fair woman to look upon. <sup>12</sup>Therefore it shall come to pass, when the Egyptians shall see thee, that they shall say, This is his wife; and they will kill me, but they will keep thee alive for them. <sup>13</sup>Say, therefore, I am his sister, that it may be well with me for thy sake; and my soul shall live because of thee.'  <sup>14</sup>And it came to pass, when Abram was come into Egypt, and the Egyptians beheld his wife, that she was very fair, <sup>15</sup>that the princes of Pharaoh saw her, and praised her unto Pharaoh, and brought her into Pharaoh's house. <sup>16</sup>And they entreated Abram well for her sake, and he had sheep, and calves, and mules, and menservants, and maidservants, and asses, and camels. <sup>17</sup>And God afflicted Pharaoh and his house with great and heavy afflictions because of Sarai Abram's wife. <sup>18</sup>And Pharaoh called Abram, and said, 'What is this that thou hast done unto me, that thou didst not tell me that she was thy wife? <sup>19</sup>Why saidst thou, She is my sister; and I took her to me to wife? And now behold, thy wife is before thee; take her, and quickly go thy way.'  <sup>20</sup>And Pharaoh commanded his men concerning Abram, to join in sending him forth, and his wife, and all that he had, and Lot with him.
