---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 13
chapter_order_number: 13
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

<sup>1</sup>And Abram went up out of Egypt, he and his wife and all that he had, and Lot with him, into the wilderness. <sup>2</sup>And Abram was very rich in cattle, and in silver, and in gold. <sup>3</sup>And he went on his journey from whence he had come into the wilderness, even to Baithel, unto the place where his tent had been before, between Bethel and Hai, <sup>4</sup>unto the place of the altar which he had made there at the first; and there Abram called on the name of the LORD. <sup>5</sup>And Lot, who went out with Abram, had sheep and cattle and tents. <sup>6</sup>And the land had not room enough for them to dwell together, for their substance was great and the land was not large enough for them to dwell together. <sup>7</sup>And there was a strife between the herdmen of Abram's cattle and the herdsmen of Lot's cattle; and the Canaanites and the Pherezites dwelt then in the land. <sup>8</sup>And Abram said unto Lot, 'Let there be no strife between me and thee, and between my herdmen and thy herdmen, for we be brethren. <sup>9</sup>Lo, is not the whole land before thee? Separate thyself from me; if thou go to the left hand, I will go to the right, and if thou go to the right hand, then I will go to the left.' <sup>10</sup>And Lot lifted up his eyes, and beheld all the country round about Jordan, that all was watered, before God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah, even as the paradise of God, and like the land of Egypt, until thou come unto Zoar. <sup>11</sup>And Lot chose him all the country round about Jordan, and Lot journeyed from the east, and they were separated each from his brother. <sup>12</sup>And Abram dwelt in the land of Canaan, but Lot dwelt in a city of the country round about, and pitched his tent in Sodom. <sup>13</sup>But the men of Sodom were wicked and sinful before God exceedingly.

<sup>14</sup>And God said unto Abram, after that Lot was separated from him, 'Look up with thine eyes, and look from the place where thou now art, northward, and southward, and eastward, and toward the sea; <sup>15</sup>for all the land which thou seest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed for ever. <sup>16</sup>And I will make thy seed as the dust of the earth; if any one can number the dust of the earth, then shall thy seed also be numbered. <sup>17</sup>Arise, pass through the land in the length of it, and in the breadth, for I will give it unto thee and unto thy seed for ever.' <sup>18</sup>Then Abram removed his tent, and came and dwelt by the oak of Mamre, which was in Hebron, and builded there an altar
