---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 19
chapter_order_number: 19
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

<sup>1</sup>Now there came the two Angels to Sodom at even, and Lot sat at the gate of Sodom. And Lot, seeing them, rose up to meet them, and he bowed himself with his face toward the ground. <sup>2</sup>And he said, 'Behold, my lords, turn aside into your servant's house and rest from your journey and wash your feet; and when ye are risen up early in the morning ye shall go on your way'. And they said, 'Nay, but we will lodge in the street'. <sup>3</sup>And he pressed upon them, and they turned aside unto him, and entered into his house; and he made them a feast, and did bake them unleavened bread, and they did eat. <sup>4</sup>But before they lay down to sleep, the men of the city, even the Sodomites, compassed the house round, both young and old, all the people together. <sup>5</sup>And they called unto Lot, and said unto him, 'Where are the men who came into thee this night? bring them out unto us, that we may know them'. <sup>6</sup>And Lot went out at the threshold unto them, and shut the door after him. <sup>7</sup>And he said unto them, 'By no means, brethren; do not so wickedly. <sup>8</sup>Now have I two daughters, which have not known man. I will bring them out unto you, and do ye use them as it may please you; only unto these men do nothing unjust, for they came in under the shelter of my roof.' <sup>9</sup>And they said unto him, 'Stand back there. Thou camest in to sojourn; was it also to judge? Now then we will harm thee rather than them.' And they pressed sore upon the man, even Lot, and came near to break the door. <sup>10</sup>But the men put forth their hands, and drew Lot into the house to them, and shut to the door of the house. <sup>11</sup>And they smote the men that were at the door of the house with blindness, both small and great, and they were wearied seeking to find the door.

<sup>12</sup>And  the  men  said  unto  Lot,  'Hast  thou  here  sons­in­law,  or  sons,  or daughters? Or if thou hast any other in the city, bring them out of this place. <sup>13</sup>For we are about to destroy this place, because the cry of them is lifted up before the LORD, and the LORD hath sent us to destroy it.' <sup>14</sup>And Lot went out, and spake unto his sons­ in­law which had married his daughters, and said, 'Up, and get you out of this place, for the LORD is about to destroy the city'. But he seemed to speak in jest before his sons­in­law. <sup>15</sup>But when the morning arose, the Angels hastened Lot, saying, 'Arise, and take thy wife and thy two daughters, which thou hast, and go forth, lest thou also be destroyed with the transgressions of the city'. <sup>16</sup>And they were troubled, and the Angels laid hold upon his hand, and upon the hand of his wife, and upon the hands of his two daughters, in that the LORD spared him. <sup>17</sup>And it came to pass, when they had brought them forth without, that they said, 'Save thine own soul by all means. Look not behind thee, neither stay thou in all the country round about; escape to the mountain, lest peradventure thou be overtaken.' <sup>18</sup>And Lot said unto them, 'I pray, O LORD, <sup>19</sup>since Thy servant hath found mercy in Thy sight, and Thou hast magnified Thy righteousness in what Thou doest toward me, that my soul may live; but I shall not be able to escape to the mountain, lest peradventure the calamities overtake me, and I die. <sup>20</sup>Behold, this city is near for me to escape thither; it is a little one, and there shall I be preserved ­ is it not a little one? ­ and my soul shall live.' <sup>21</sup>And he said unto him, 'See, I have had respect unto thy countenance concerning this thing also, that I should not overthrow the city for the which thou hast spoken. <sup>22</sup>Haste thee, therefore, to escape thither, for I shall not be able to do any thing until thou be come thither.' Therefore he called the name of that city Zoar. <sup>23</sup>The sun was risen upon the earth when Lot entered into Zoar, <sup>24</sup>and the LORD rained upon Sodom and upon Gomorrah brimstone and fire from the LORD out of heaven. <sup>25</sup>And He overthrew these cities, and all the country round about, and all that dwelt in the cities, and that which grew up out of the ground. <sup>26</sup>But his wife looked back, and she became a pillar of salt. 

<sup>27</sup>And Abraham gat up early in the morning, to the place where he stood before the LORD, <sup>28</sup>and he looked toward Sodom and Gomorrah, and upon the face of the country round about, and beheld, and lo, a flame from the earth went up as the smoke of a furnace. <sup>29</sup>And it came to pass, when God destroyed all the cities of the region round about, that God remembered Abraham, and sent Lot out of the midst of the overthrow, when the LORD overthrew the cities in the which Lot dwelt. 

<sup>30</sup>And Lot went up out of Zoar, and dwelt in the mountain, he and his two daughters with him, for he feared to dwell in Zoar; and he dwelt in a cave, he and his two daughters with him. <sup>31</sup>And the elder said unto the younger, 'Our father is old, and there is not a man in the earth who shall come in unto us as is meet in all the earth. <sup>32</sup>Come, and let us make our father drink wine, and let us lie with him and raise up seed of our father.' <sup>33</sup>And they made their father drink wine that night, and the elder went in, and lay with her father that night, and he perceived not when she lay down, nor when she arose. <sup>34</sup>And it came to pass on the morrow, that the elder said unto the younger, 'Behold, I lay yesternight with our father; let us make him drink wine this night also, and go thou in and lie with him, and let us raise up seed of our father'. <sup>35</sup>So they made their father drink wine that night also, and the younger went in, and lay with her father, and he perceived not when she lay down, nor when she arose. <sup>36</sup>Then were the two daughters of Lot with child by their father. <sup>37</sup>And the elder bare a son and called his name Moab, saying, 'Of my father.' This is the father of the Moabites unto this  present  day. <sup>38</sup>And  the  younger,  she  also  bare  a  son  and  called  his  name Benammi, saying, 'The son of my family.' This is the father of the Ammonites unto this present day.
