---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 23
chapter_order_number: 23
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

<sup>1</sup>Now the life of Sarah was an hundred and seven and twenty years. <sup>2</sup>And Sarah died in the city of Kirjath Arba, which is in the valley; the same is Hebron in the land of Canaan. And Abraham came to lament for Sarah, and to mourn. <sup>3</sup>And Abraham stood up from before his dead, and Abraham spake unto the sons of Heth, saying, <sup>4</sup>'I am a sojourner and a stranger among you; give me therefore possession of a burying­place among you, and I will bury my dead away from me'. <sup>5</sup>And the sons of Heth answered Abraham, saying, 'Nay, my lord, <sup>6</sup>but hear us. Thou art a king from God among us. In our choice sepulchres bury thy dead, for not one of us shall withhold from thee his sepulchre to bury thy dead there.' <sup>7</sup>And Abraham stood up, and bowed himself to the people of the land, even to the sons of Heth. <sup>8</sup>And Abraham spake to them, saying, 'If ye have it in mind that I should bury my dead out of my sight, hear me, and intreat for me to Ephron the son of Zohar. <sup>9</sup>And let him give me the double cave, which he hath, which is in a part of his field; for as much money as it is worth let him give it me for a possession of a burying­place amongst you.'  <sup>10</sup>Now Ephron was sitting among the children of Heth. And Ephron the Hittite answered Abraham, and spake before the sons of Heth, and of all that went into the city, saying, <sup>11</sup>'Be attentive to me, my lord, and hearken unto me. The field give I thee, and the cave that is therein, I give it thee; in the presence of all my people have I given it thee; bury thy dead.'  <sup>12</sup>And Abraham bowed down himself before the people of the land. <sup>13</sup>And he said in the ears of Ephron in the audience of the people of the land, 'Since thou art in my presence, hear me; take the price of the field of me, and I will bury my dead there'. <sup>14</sup>But Ephron answered Abraham, saying, <sup>15</sup>'Nay, my lord, I have heard indeed that the land is worth four hundred didrachmas of silver; but what would this be betwixt me and thee?  Bury therefore thy dead.' <sup>16</sup>And Abraham hearkened unto Ephron, and Abraham rendered to Ephron the silver, which he had spoken of in the ears of the sons of Heth, four hundred didrachmas of silver, certified of merchants. <sup>17</sup>And the field of Ephron, which was in the double cave over against Mamre, the field, and the cave which was therein, and every tree that was in the field, and whatsoever was in the borders thereof round about, were made sure <sup>18</sup>unto Abraham for a possession in the presence of the sons of Heth, and of all that went into the city. <sup>19</sup>After this, Abraham buried Sarah his wife in the double cave of the field, which is over against Mamre; the same is Hebron in the land of Canaan. <sup>20</sup>And the field, and the cave that was therein, were made sure unto Abraham for a possession of a burying­place by the sons of Heth.
