---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 25
chapter_order_number: 25
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

<sup>1</sup>And again Abraham took a wife, whose name was Keturah. <sup>2</sup>And she bare him Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah. <sup>3</sup>And Jokshan begat Teman, and Sheba, and Dedan. And the sons of Dedan were Reuel, and Nabdeel, and the Asshurim, the Letushim, and the Leummim. <sup>4</sup>And the sons of Midian were Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abida, and Eldaah. All these were sons of Keturah. 

<sup>5</sup>And Abraham gave all his substance unto Isaac his son; <sup>6</sup>and unto the sons of his concubines Abraham gave gifts, and sent them away from Isaac his son, while he yet lived, eastward, unto the east country. <sup>7</sup>And these are the years of the days of Abraham's life, which he lived; an hundred threescore and fifteen years. <sup>8</sup>And Abraham breathed his last, and died in a good old age, an old man, and full of days, and was added to his people. <sup>9</sup>And his sons Isaac and Ismael buried him in the double cave, in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite, which is over against Mamre; <sup>10</sup>the field and the cave which Abraham purchased of the sons of Heth; there they buried Abraham and Sarah his wife. <sup>11</sup>And it came to pass after Abraham was dead, that God blessed his son Isaac, and Isaac dwelt by the Well of the Vision. 

<sup>12</sup>Now these are the generations of Ishmael, Abraham's son, whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah's handmaid, bare unto Abraham. <sup>13</sup>And these are the names of the sons of Ishmael, according to the names of their generations; the firstborn of Ishmael was Nebajoth, then Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam, <sup>14</sup>and Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa, <sup>15</sup>and Hedar, and Temar, and Jetur, and Naphish, and Kedemah. <sup>16</sup>These are the sons of Ishmael, and these are their names, in their tents, and in their dwellings; twelve princes according to their nations. <sup>17</sup>And these are the years of the life of Ishmael, an hundred and thirty and seven years; and he breathed his last, and died, and was added unto his family. <sup>18</sup>And he dwelt from Havilah unto Shur, that is over against Egypt, until one cometh unto the Assyrians. He dwelt over against all his brethren. 

<sup>19</sup>And these are the generations of Isaac, Abraham's son; <sup>20</sup>Abraham begat Isaac. And Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah to wife, the daughter of Bethuel the Syrian out of Syrian Mesopotamia, the sister to Laban the Syrian. <sup>21</sup>And Isaac entreated the LORD for Rebekah his wife, because she was barren; and God heard him, and Rebekah his wife conceived in her womb. <sup>22</sup>And the babes leapt within her, and she said, 'If it is to be so with me, why is this to me?' And she went to inquire of the LORD. <sup>23</sup>And the LORD said unto her, 'Two nations are in thy womb, and two peoples shall be separated from thy belly; and the one people shall excel the other people, and the greater shall serve the lesser'. <sup>24</sup>And when her days to be delivered were fulfilled, there were twins in her womb. <sup>25</sup>And the first came out red, all over hairy like an hide; and she called his name Esau. <sup>26</sup>And after that came his brother out, and his hand took hold on Esau's heel; and she called his name Jacob. And Isaac was threescore years old when Rebekah bare them. 

<sup>27</sup>And the boys grew; and Esau was a man cunning in hunting, a man of the field; and Jacob was a plain man, and dwelt in an house. <sup>28</sup>And Isaac loved Esau, because his game was meat for him; but Rebekah loved Jacob. <sup>29</sup>And Jacob sod pottage; and Esau came from the field, and he was faint. <sup>30</sup>And Esau said to Jacob, 'Let me taste of that red pottage, for I am faint'; therefore was his name called Edom. <sup>31</sup>And Jacob said to Esau, 'Sell me this day thy birthright'. <sup>32</sup>And Esau said, 'Behold, I am at the point to die; and for what good is this birthright to me?' <sup>33</sup>And Jacob said, 'Swear to me this day'; and he sware unto him, and Esau sold his birthright unto Jacob. <sup>34</sup>Then Jacob gave Esau bread and pottage of lentiles; and he did eat and drink, and rose up, and went his way; so Esau despised his birthright.
