---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 30
chapter_order_number: 30
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>30</sup><sup>29</sup>And Rachel saw that she bare not to Jacob, and Rachel envied her sister, and
said unto Jacob, 'Give me children; and if not, I shall die'. <sup>2</sup>And Jacob was angry with
Rachel, and he said unto her, 'Am I in God's stead, Who hath withheld from thee the
fruit of the womb?' <sup>3</sup>And Rachel said unto Jacob, 'Behold my handmaid Bilhah. Go in
unto her, and she shall bear upon my knees, and I also shall have children by her.'
<sup>4</sup>And she gave him Bilhah her handmaid to wife, and Jacob went in unto her. <sup>5</sup>And
Bilhah Rachel's handmaid conceived, and bare Jacob a son. <sup>6</sup>And Rachel said, 'God
hath given judgment for me, and hath heard my voice, and hath given me a son'.
Therefore she called his name Dan. <sup>7</sup>And Bilhah Rachel's handmaid conceived yet
again, and bare Jacob a second son. <sup>8</sup>And Rachel said, 'God hath holpen me, and I
have contended with my sister, and have prevailed'. And she called his name Naphtali.
<sup>9</sup>And Leah saw that she had left bearing, and she took Zilpah her handmaid, and
gave her to Jacob to wife, and he went in unto her. <sup>10</sup>And Zilpah Lea's handmaid
conceived, and bare Jacob a son. <sup>11</sup>And Leah said, 'By good fortune', and she called his
name Gad. <sup>12</sup>And Zilpah Leah's handmaid conceived again, and bare Jacob a second
son. <sup>13</sup>And Leah said, 'Happy am I, for the women will call me blessed'. And she called
his name Asher. <sup>14</sup>And Reuben went in the day of wheat harvest, and found fruits of
mandrakes in the field, and brought them unto his mother Leah. And Rachel said to
Leah her sister, 'Give me of thy son's mandrakes'. <sup>15</sup>And Leah said, 'Is it not enough for
thee  that  thou  hast  taken  away  my  husband?   Shalt  thou  take  away  my  son's
mandrakes also?' And Rachel said, 'Not so; let him lie with thee tonight for thy son's
mandrakes'. <sup>16</sup>And Jacob came in out of the field in the evening, and Leah went out to
meet him and said, 'Thou shalt come in unto me this day, for I have hired thee for my
son's mandrakes'. And he lay with her that night. <sup>17</sup>And God hearkened unto Leah,
and she conceived, and bare Jacob a fifth son. <sup>18</sup>And Leah said, 'God hath given me my
reward, because I have given my handmaid to my husband'. And she called his name
Issachar, which is, Reward. <sup>19</sup>And Leah conceived again, and bare Jacob a sixth son.
<sup>20</sup>And Leah said, 'God hath given me a good gift in this time; now will my husband
choose me, because I have borne him six sons'; and she called his name Zebulun.
<sup>21</sup>And after this she bare a daughter, and called her name Dinah.
<sup>22</sup>Then God remembered Rachel, and God hearkened to her, and opened her
womb. <sup>23</sup>And she conceived, and bare Jacob a son, and Rachel said, 'God hath taken
away my reproach'. <sup>24</sup>And she called his name Joseph, and she said, 'Let God add to
me another son'. 
<sup>25</sup>And it came to pass, when Rachel had borne Joseph, that Jacob said unto
Laban, 'Send me away, that I may go unto mine own place, and to my country. <sup>26</sup>Give
me my wives and my children, for whom I have served thee, that I may depart; for thou
knowest the service wherewith I have served thee.'  <sup>27</sup>And Laban said unto him, 'If I
have found grace in thine eyes, I would have divined it; for the LORD hath blessed me
at thy coming in. <sup>28</sup>Appoint me thy wages, and I will give them.'  <sup>29</sup>And Jacob said,
'Thou knowest in what things I have served thee, and how many of thy cattle have been
with me. <sup>30</sup>For it was little which thou hadst before me, and it is increased unto a
multitude; and the LORD God hath blessed thee since my coming. Now therefore, when
shall I set up mine own house also?'  <sup>31</sup>And Laban said unto him, 'What shall I give
thee?' And Jacob said to him, 'Thou shalt not give me any thing. If thou wilt do this
thing for me, I will again tend thy flocks and keep them. <sup>32</sup>Let all thy sheep pass by
today, and set apart thence every grey sheep among the rams, and every one that is
speckled  and  spotted  among  the  goats;  this  shall  be  my  hire. <sup>33</sup>So  shall  my
righteousness answer for me tomorrow, for it is my hire before thy face. Whatsoever is
not spotted and speckled among the goats, and grey among the rams, shall be counted
stolen with me.' <sup>34</sup>And Laban said unto him, 'Let it be according to thy word'. <sup>35</sup>And he
set apart in that day the he­goats that were spotted and speckled, and all the she­goats
that were spotted and speckled, and all that was grey among the rams, and every one<sup>30</sup>that was white among them, and he gave them into the hand of his sons. <sup>36</sup>And he set
three days' journey betwixt them and Jacob. And Jacob tended the cattle of Laban that
were left behind. <sup>37</sup>And Jacob took him green rods of storax, and of the walnut, and of
the plane tree, and Jacob pilled white strakes in them, and tore the green away. And
the white strakes which he had pilled appeared spotted on the rods. <sup>38</sup>And he laid the
rods which he had pilled in the gutters of the watering­troughs, that whensoever the
cattle should come to drink, as they should come to drink before the rods, the cattle
should conceive at the rods. <sup>39</sup>So the flocks conceived at the rods, and the cattle
brought forth speckled and streaked and spotted with ashen colours. <sup>40</sup>And Jacob did
set apart the lambs, and set before the sheep a speckled ram, and every spotted one
among the lambs. And he separated flocks unto himself alone, and mingled them not
with the sheep of Laban. <sup>41</sup>And it came to pass in the time wherein the sheep came into
heat, as they conceived, that Jacob put the rods before the flocks in the troughs, that
they might come into heat by the rods. <sup>42</sup>But he put them not in whensoever the cattle
brought forth; but the unmarked were Laban's, and the marked were Jacob's. <sup>43</sup>And
the man became rich exceedingly, and had much cattle and oxen, and menservants and
maidservants, and camels and asses.