---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 35
chapter_order_number: 35
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>35</sup>
And God said unto Jacob, 'Arise, go up to the place Bethel, and dwell there; and
make there an altar unto the God, that appeared unto thee when thou fleddest from the
face of Esau, thy brother'. <sup>2</sup>And Jacob said unto his household and to all that were
with him, 'Put away the strange gods that are with you from the midst of you, and
cleanse ye, and change your garments. <sup>3</sup>And let us arise and go up to Bethel, and let us
make there an altar unto the God who hearkened unto me in the day of distress, who
was with me, and preserved me in the way which I went.' <sup>4</sup>And they gave unto Jacob
the strange gods which were in their hands, and their earrings which were in their ears,
and Jacob hid them under the terebinth tree which is in Shechem, and he destroyed
them unto the present day. <sup>5</sup>And Israel departed from Shechem, and the terror of God
was upon the cities that were round about them, and they did not pursue after the sons
of Israel. <sup>6</sup>And Jacob came to Luz, which is in the land of Canaan, that is Bethel, he
and all the people that were with him. <sup>7</sup>And he builded there an altar, and called the
name of the place Bethel, because there God appeared unto him, when he fled from the
face of Esau his brother. <sup>8</sup>But Deborah Rebekah's nurse died, and was buried beneath
Bethel under the oak. And Jacob called the name of it, The Oak of Mourning. 
<sup>9</sup>And God appeared unto Jacob again in Luz, when he came out of Mesopotamia
of Syria, and God blessed him. <sup>10</sup>And God said unto him, 'Thy name shall not be called
Jacob, but Israel shall be thy name'. And He called his name Israel. <sup>11</sup>And God said, 'I
am thy God; increase and multiply, for nations and gatherings of nations shall be of
thee, and kings shall come out of thy loins. <sup>12</sup>And the land which I gave Abraham and
Isaac, to thee have I given it, and it shall come to pass that unto thy seed after thee will
I give this land also.' <sup>13</sup>And God went up from him from the place where he talked with
him. <sup>14</sup>And Jacob set up a pillar in the place where God talked with him, even a pillar
of stone; and he poured a drink offering thereon, and he poured oil thereon. <sup>15</sup>And
Jacob called the name of the place where God spake with him, Bethel. 
<sup>16</sup>And Jacob journeyed from Bethel, and pitched his tent beyond the tower of
Edar. And it came to pass, when he drew nigh unto Kibrat to enter into Ephrath, that
Rachel travailed, and in her travail she had hard labour. <sup>17</sup>And it came to pass, when
she was in hard labour, that the midwife said unto her, 'Be of good courage, for thou
shalt have this son also'. <sup>18</sup>And it came to pass, when she gave up her soul (for she
died), that she called his name, The Son of My Pain; but his father called his name
Benjamin. <sup>19</sup>So Rachel died, and was buried in the way of the course of Ephrath; this is
Bethlehem. <sup>20</sup>And Jacob set up a pillar upon her tomb; this is the pillar on Rachel's
tomb unto this day. <sup>21</sup>And it came to pass, when Israel dwelt in that land, that Reuben
went and lay with Bilhah his father Jacob's concubine, and Israel heard, and it seemed
evil before him. 
<sup>22</sup>Now the sons of Jacob were twelve. <sup>23</sup>The sons of Leah, Jacob's firstborn;
Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Zebulun. <sup>24</sup>And the sons of Rachel; Joseph,
and Benjamin. <sup>25</sup>And the sons of Bilhah, Rachel's handmaid; Dan, and Naphtali. <sup>26</sup>And
the sons of Zilpah, Leah's handmaid; Gad, and Asher. These are the sons of Jacob,
which were born to him in Mesopotamia of Syria. 
<sup>27</sup>And Jacob came unto Isaac his father unto Mamre, unto a city of the plain ­
this is Hebron ­ in the land of Canaan, where Abraham and Isaac sojourned. <sup>28</sup>And the
days of Isaac which he lived were an hundred and fourscore years. <sup>29</sup>And Isaac gave up
the ghost, and died, and was gathered unto his family, being old and full of days; and
his sons Esau and Jacob buried him.