---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 38
chapter_order_number: 38
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>38</sup>
And it came to pass at that time, that Judah went down from his brethren, and
came unto a certain man of Adollam, whose name was Hirah. <sup>2</sup>And Judah saw there
the daughter of a Canaanite man, whose name was Shua, and he took her, and went in
unto her. <sup>3</sup>And she conceived, and bare a son, and she called his name Er. <sup>4</sup>And she
conceived again, and bare a son, and she called his name Onan. <sup>5</sup>And she yet again
conceived and bare a son, and called his name Shelah; and she was at Chezib when she
bare them. <sup>6</sup>And Judah took a wife for Er his firstborn, whose name was Tamar. <sup>7</sup>And
Er, Judah's firstborn, was wicked in the sight of the LORD, and God slew him. <sup>8</sup>And
Judah said unto Onan, 'Go in unto thy brother's wife, and marry her as her brother in
law, and raise up seed to thy brother'. <sup>9</sup>And Onan knew that the seed should not be
his; and it came to pass when he went in unto his brother's wife, that he spilled it on
the ground, that he should not give seed to his brother's wife. <sup>10</sup>And his doing this
appeared evil in the sight of God, and he slew him also. <sup>11</sup>Then said Judah to Tamar
his daughter­in­law, 'Sit thou a widow in thy father's house till Shelah my son be
grown'; for he said, 'Lest he die also as his brethren did'. And Tamar departed, and sat
in her father's house. 
<sup>12</sup>And the days were fulfilled, and Shua, Judah's wife, died, and Judah was
comforted, and went up unto them that sheared his sheep to Timnath, he and his
shepherd Hirah the Adullamite. <sup>13</sup>And it was told Tamar his daughter­in­law, saying,
'Behold, thy father­in­law goeth up to Timnath to shear his sheep'. <sup>14</sup>And she put the
garments of her widowhood from off her, and put on her a veil and adorned her face,
and sat by the gates of Ainan, which is in the way to Timnath; for she saw that Shelah
was grown, but he gave her not unto him to wife. <sup>15</sup>And when Judah saw her, he
thought her to be a harlot, because she had covered her face, and he knew her not.
<sup>16</sup>And he turned his way unto her, and said, 'Let me come in unto thee' (for he knew not
that she was his daughter­in­law). And she said, 'What wilt thou give me if thou come
in unto me?' <sup>17</sup>And he said, 'I will send thee a kid of the goats from my flock'. And she
said, 'Well, if thou wilt give me a pledge, till thou send it'. <sup>18</sup>And he said, 'What is the
pledge that I shall give thee?' And she said, 'Thy signet and thy collar, and thy staff
that is in thine hand'. And he gave them her, and went in unto her, and she conceived
by him. <sup>19</sup>And she arose, and went away, and laid by her veil from her, and put on the<sup>39</sup>garments of her widowhood. <sup>20</sup>And Judah sent the kid of the goats by the hand of his
shepherd the Adullamite to receive the pledge from the woman; but he found her not.
<sup>21</sup>And he asked the men of the place, 'Where is the harlot that was in Ainan by the
wayside?' And they said, 'There was no harlot here'. <sup>22</sup>And he returned to Judah and
said, 'I have not found her, and the men of the place say, 'There is no harlot here” '.
<sup>23</sup>And Judah said, 'Let her have them, but let us not be laughed at; I sent this kid, but
thou hast not found her'. 
<sup>24</sup>And it came to pass three months after, that it was told Judah, saying,
'Tamar thy daughter­in­law hath grievously played the harlot, and behold, she is with
child by whoredom'. And Judah said, 'Bring her forth, and let her be burnt'. <sup>25</sup>And as
they brought her forth, she sent to her father­in­law, saying, 'By the man whose these
are, am I with child'. And she said, 'Discern whose is this signet, and collar, and staff'.
<sup>26</sup>And Judah acknowledged them and said, 'Tamar is justified rather than I, because
that I gave her not to Shelah my son'. And he knew her again no more. 
<sup>27</sup>And it came to pass when she travailed, that she also had twins in her womb.
<sup>28</sup>And it came to pass as she gave birth, that the one put out his hand, and the midwife
took hold of it, and bound upon his hand a scarlet thread, saying, 'This one shall come
out first'. <sup>29</sup>And when he drew back his hand, then forthwith his brother came out; and
she said, 'Why hath the barrier been cut through because of thee?' And she called his
name Pharez. <sup>30</sup>And after this came out his brother, upon whose hand was the scarlet
thread, and she called his name Zarah.