---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 40
chapter_order_number: 40
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>40</sup>
And it came to pass after these things that the chief cupbearer of the king of
Egypt and his baker had transgressed against their lord, the king of Egypt. <sup>2</sup>And
Pharaoh was wroth with his two eunuchs, with the chief cupbearer and with the chief
baker. <sup>3</sup>And he put them in ward into the prison, into the place whereinto Joseph had
been led. <sup>4</sup>And the chief keeper of the prison committed them to Joseph, and he stood
by them, and they were some days in the prison. <sup>5</sup>And they saw a dream both of them
in one night, and the vision of the dream of the chief cupbearer and the chief baker,
which were of the king of Egypt, which were in the prison, was this. <sup>6</sup>And Joseph came
in unto them in the morning, and saw them, and they were troubled. <sup>7</sup>And he asked
Pharaoh's eunuchs that were with him in the ward of his master's house, saying,
'Wherefore is it that your faces are sad today?' <sup>8</sup>And they said unto him, 'We have seen
a dream, and there is no interpreter of it'. And Joseph said unto them, 'Is not the
interpretation of them through God? then tell me them'. <sup>9</sup>And the chief cupbearer told
his dream to Joseph, and said, 'In my sleep a vine was before me. <sup>10</sup>And in the vine
were three stems, and it budded and shot forth blossoms; the grapes of a cluster of
grapes were ripe. <sup>11</sup>And Pharaoh's cup was in my hand, and I took the bunch of grapes
and pressed it into the cup, and I gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand.' <sup>12</sup>And Joseph said
unto him, 'This is the interpretation of it; the three branches are three days; <sup>13</sup>yet three
days, and Pharaoh shall remember thine office and shall restore thee unto thy place of
chief cupbearer, and thou shalt give Pharaoh's cup into his hand, according to thy
former high place when thou wast cupbearer. <sup>14</sup>But remember thou me of thyself when
it shall be well with thee; and thou shalt deal mercifully with me, and make mention of
me unto Pharaoh, and bring me out of this dungeon. <sup>15</sup>For surely I was stolen away out
of the land of the Hebrews; here also have I done nothing, but they have cast me into
this pit.'  <sup>16</sup>And the chief baker saw that he interpreted rightly, and he said unto
Joseph, 'I also saw a dream, and methought I took up three baskets of meal loaves on
my head. <sup>17</sup>And in the uppermost basket there was of all manner of the baker's work
which Pharaoh eateth, and the birds of heaven did eat them out of the basket that was
upon my head.' <sup>18</sup>And Joseph answered and said unto him, 'This is the interpretation
thereof; The three baskets are three days; <sup>19</sup>yet three days, and Pharaoh shall take away
thy head from off thee, and shall hang thee on a tree, and the birds of the air shall eat
thy flesh from off thee.'  <sup>20</sup>And it came to pass the third day, that it was Pharaoh's
birthday, and he made a feast unto all his servants; and he remembered the office of<sup>41</sup>the chief cupbearer and the office of the chief baker among his servants. <sup>21</sup>And he
restored the chief cupbearer unto his office, and he gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand.
<sup>22</sup>And he hanged the chief baker, as Joseph had interpreted to them. <sup>23</sup>Yet did not the
chief butler remember Joseph, but forgat him.