---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 44
chapter_order_number: 44
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>44</sup>
And Joseph commanded the steward of his house, saying, 'Fill the men's sacks
with food, as much as they can carry, and put every man's money in his sack's mouth.
<sup>2</sup>And put my silver cup into the sack of the youngest, and the price of his corn.' And it
was done according to the word of Joseph that he had spoken. <sup>3</sup>The morning dawned,
and the men were sent away, they and their asses. <sup>4</sup>And when they were gone out of
the city and not yet far off, Joseph said unto his steward, 'Up, and pursue after the
men, and thou shalt overtake them and say unto them, “Wherefore have ye rewarded
evil for good? <sup>5</sup>Wherefore have ye stolen my silver cup? Is it not this in which my lord
drinketh? And he divineth augury with it; ye have accomplished evil in that which ye
have done.” ' <sup>6</sup>And he found them, and spake unto them according unto these words.
<sup>7</sup>And they said unto him, 'Wherefore speaketh my lord according unto these words? Far
be it from thy servants that they should do according unto this word. <sup>8</sup>If we brought
again unto thee out of the land of Canaan the money which we found in our sacks, how
should we steal out of thy lord's house silver or gold? <sup>9</sup>With whomsoever of thy servants
thou shalt find the cup, let him die; and moreover we will be thy lord's bondmen.' <sup>10</sup>And
he said, 'Now then it shall be as ye say; he with whomsoever the cup is found shall be
my bondman, and ye shall be clear.' <sup>11</sup>And they hasted, and took down every man his
sack upon the ground, and they opened every man his sack. <sup>12</sup>And he searched, and
began at the eldest until he came to the youngest, and he found the cup in Benjamin's
sack. <sup>13</sup>Then they rent their clothes, and laded every man his sack upon his ass, and
returned to the city. <sup>14</sup>And Judah and his brethren came in unto Joseph, while he was
yet there, and they fell before him on the ground. <sup>15</sup>And Joseph said unto them, 'What
thing is this that ye have done? Know ye not that such a man as I can certainly divine?'
<sup>16</sup>And Judah said, 'What shall we answer unto our lord, or what shall we speak, or
wherein should we be justified? But God hath found out the unrighteousness of thy
servants; behold, we are my lord's bondmen, both we and he also with whom the cup is
found.' <sup>17</sup>And Joseph said, 'Far be it from me to do this thing; the man with whom the
cup hath been found, he shall be my bondman; but as for you, get you up in safety
unto your father'.
<sup>18</sup>Then Judah came near unto him, and said, 'O lord, let thy servant, I pray
thee, speak a word before thee; and be not angry with thy servant, for thou art next to
Pharaoh. <sup>19</sup>Thou, lord, didst ask thy servants, saying, “Have ye a father or a brother?”
<sup>20</sup>And we said unto my lord, “We have a father, an old man, and he hath a son of his old
age, a young one, and his brother is dead, and he alone is left behind of his mother, and<sup>46</sup>his father loved him.” <sup>21</sup>And thou saidst unto thy servants, “Bring him down unto me,
and I will care for him”. <sup>22</sup>And we said unto my lord, “The lad will not be able to leave
his father, but if he should leave his father, he will die”. <sup>23</sup>But thou saidst unto thy
servants, “Except your younger brother come down with you, ye shall see my face no
more”. <sup>24</sup>And it came to pass when we came up unto thy servant my father, we told him
the words of my lord. <sup>25</sup>And our father said, “Go again, and buy us a little food”. <sup>26</sup>And
we said, “We shall not be able to go down, but if our younger brother go down with us,
then will we go down, for we shall not be able to see the man's face, our younger
brother not being with us”. <sup>27</sup>And thy servant my father said unto us, “Ye know that my
wife bare me two  sons; <sup>28</sup>and one is departed from me, and ye said that he was
devoured of wild beasts, and I have not seen him until now. <sup>29</sup>If then ye take this one
also from my presence, and affliction befall him by the way, ye shall bring down mine
old age with sorrow into Hades.” <sup>30</sup>Now therefore, if I go in to thy servant and my father,
and the lad be not with us, and his life dependeth upon this lad's life, <sup>31</sup>it shall come to
pass when he seeth that the lad is not with us, that he will die, and thy servants shall
bring down the old age of thy servant and our father with sorrow into Hades. <sup>32</sup>For thy
servant became surety for the lad from his father, saying, “If I bring him not unto thee
and set him before thee, then shall I be guilty toward my father for ever”. <sup>33</sup>Now then I
will abide a servant with thee instead of the lad, a bondman to my lord, but let the lad
go up with his brethren. <sup>34</sup>For how shall I go up to my father, and the lad be not with
me, lest I behold the evils that shall come on my father?'