---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 47
chapter_order_number: 47
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>47</sup>
Then Joseph came and told Pharaoh, and said, 'My father and my brethren,
and their cattle and their oxen, and all that they have, are come out of the land of
Canaan, and behold, they are in the land of Goshen'. <sup>2</sup>And he took of his brethren five
men, and set them before Pharaoh. <sup>3</sup>And Pharaoh said unto Joseph's brethren, 'What
is your occupation?' And they said unto Pharaoh, 'Thy servants are shepherds, both we
and also our fathers'. <sup>4</sup>And they said unto Pharaoh, 'For to sojourn in the land are we
come, for there is no pasture for thy servants' flocks, for the famine hath prevailed in
the land of Canaan; now therefore let thy servants dwell in the land of Goshen'. <sup>5</sup>And
Pharaoh said unto Joseph, 'In the land of Goshen let them dwell, and if thou knowest
that there be men of ability among them, make them rulers of my cattle'. 
So Jacob and his sons came into Egypt to Joseph, and Pharaoh king of Egypt,
heard of it. <sup>6</sup>And Pharaoh spake unto Joseph, saying, 'Thy father and thy brethren are
come unto thee. Behold, the land of Egypt is before thee; in the best land settle thy
father and thy brethren.' <sup>7</sup>And Joseph brought in Jacob his father, and set him before
Pharaoh, and Jacob blessed Pharaoh. <sup>8</sup>And Pharaoh said unto Jacob, 'How many are
the years of the days of thy life?' <sup>9</sup>And Jacob said unto Pharaoh, 'The days of the years
of my life, wherein I sojourn, are an hundred and thirty years. Few and evil have the
days of the years of my life been; they have not attained unto the days of years of the
life of my fathers, in which days they sojourned.'  <sup>10</sup>And Jacob blessed Pharaoh and
went out from him. <sup>11</sup>And Joseph placed his father and his brethren, and gave them a
possession in the land of Egypt in the best land, in the land of Rameses, as Pharaoh
had commanded. <sup>12</sup>And Joseph gave provision unto his father, and his brethren, and
unto all his father's house, with corn for each person. 
<sup>13</sup>And there was no corn in all the land, for the famine prevailed greatly, and
the land of Egypt and the land of Canaan failed by reason of the famine. <sup>14</sup>And Joseph<sup>49</sup>gathered up all the money that was found in the land of Egypt, and in the land of
Canaan, for the corn which they bought, and he measured out corn unto them, and
Joseph brought all the money into Pharaoh's house. <sup>15</sup>And all the money failed out of
the land of Egypt, and out of the land of Canaan, and all the Egyptians came unto
Joseph, saying, 'Give us bread; and why do we die in thy presence? for our money
faileth.' <sup>16</sup>And Joseph said unto them, 'Bring your cattle, and I will give you bread for
your cattle, if your money fail'. <sup>17</sup>And they brought their cattle unto Joseph, and Joseph
gave them bread in exchange for their horses, and for their sheep, and for their oxen,
and for their asses. And Joseph nourished them with bread for all their cattle in that
year. <sup>18</sup>And that year passed, and they came unto him in the second year, and said
unto him, 'Must we then be consumed from before our lord? For if our money hath
failed, and our substance and our cattle are brought unto thee our lord; then there is
naught left unto us in the sight of our lord more than our own bodies and our lands.
<sup>19</sup>Therefore, lest we die before thine eyes, and the land be made desolate, buy us and
our land for bread, and we and our land will be servants unto Pharaoh. Give us seed,
that we may sow, and live, and not die, that our land shall not be made desolate.' <sup>20</sup>And
Joseph bought all the land of Egypt for Pharaoh, for the Egyptians sold all their land
unto  Pharaoh  because  the  famine  prevailed  against  them;  so  the  land  became
Pharaoh's. <sup>21</sup>And he brought the people into bondage unto him, for servants, from one
end of Egypt even to the other end, <sup>22</sup>except only the land of the priests. Joseph bought
not this, for Pharaoh gave a portion by way of a gift unto the priests, and they did eat
their portion which Pharaoh gave them; wherefore they sold not their land. <sup>23</sup>And
Joseph said unto all the Egyptians, 'Behold, I have bought you this day and your land
for Pharaoh; take seed for you, and sow the land. <sup>24</sup>And there shall be the increase of it,
and ye shall give the fifth part unto Pharaoh; and four parts shall be for you for seed of
the earth and for food for you, and all for them that are in your houses.'  <sup>25</sup>And they
said, 'Thou hast saved us; we have found grace in the sight of our lord, and we will be
servants unto Pharaoh'. <sup>26</sup>And Joseph appointed it unto them for an ordinance unto
this day to give a fifth part unto Pharaoh, except the land of the priests; only that was
not Pharaoh's. 
<sup>27</sup>And Israel dwelt in the land of Egypt, in the land of Goshen, and they gained
an inheritance therein, and they increased and multiplied very greatly. <sup>28</sup>And Jacob
lived in the land of Egypt seventeen years, and Jacob's days of the years of his life were
an hundred forty and seven years. <sup>29</sup>And the days of Israel drew nigh for him to die,
and he called his son Joseph, and said unto him, 'If I have found favour in thy sight,
put thy hand under my thigh, and thou shalt execute mercy and truth with me, not to
bury me in Egypt; <sup>30</sup>but I will sleep with my fathers, and thou shalt carry me up out of
Egypt and bury me in their burying­place'. And he said, “I will do according unto thy
word”. <sup>31</sup>And he said, “Swear unto me”. And he sware unto him. And Israel made
obeisance, bowing himself upon his staff's top.