---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 48
chapter_order_number: 48
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>48</sup>
And it came to pass after these things that it was told Joseph, 'Thy father is
sick'. And he took with him his two sons Manasseh and Ephraim, and came unto
Jacob. <sup>2</sup>And it was told Jacob, saying, 'Behold, thy son Joseph cometh unto thee'; and
Israel strengthened himself, and sat upon the bed. <sup>3</sup>And Jacob said unto Joseph, 'My
God appeared unto me in Luz in the land of Canaan, and blessed me, <sup>4</sup>and said unto
me, “Behold, I will increase thee and multiply thee, and I will make of thee multitudes of
nations and will give this land unto thee and unto thy seed after thee for an everlasting
possession”. <sup>5</sup>Now therefore, thy two sons, which were born unto thee in the land of
Egypt, before I came unto thee into Egypt, are mine; Ephraim and Manasseh, as<sup>50</sup>Reuben and Simeon, they shall be mine. <sup>6</sup>And the children, which thou shalt beget
hereafter, shall be in the name of their brethren; they shall be called after their
inheritance. <sup>7</sup>And as for me, when I came out of Mesopotamia of Syria, Rachel thy
mother died in the land of Canaan, as I drew nigh unto the hippodrome of Kibrat, of the
land  to come  unto Ephrath;  and I  buried her  in the  road of  the course;  this is
Bethlehem.'  <sup>8</sup>And when Israel beheld Joseph's sons he said, 'Who are these to thee?'
<sup>9</sup>Joseph said unto his father, 'They are my sons whom God hath given me here'. And
Jacob said, 'Bring them unto me, that I may bless them'. <sup>10</sup>Now the eyes of Israel were
dim for age, and he could not see, and he brought them near unto him, and he kissed
them, and embraced them. <sup>11</sup>And Israel said unto Joseph, 'Behold, I have not been
deprived of thy face, and lo, God hath shewed me also thy seed'. <sup>12</sup>And Joseph brought
them out from between his knees, and they made obeisance unto him, with their face
toward the earth. <sup>13</sup>And Joseph took his two sons, both Ephraim in his right hand, but
on the left of Israel and Manasseh on his left hand, but on the right of Israel, and
brought them near unto him. <sup>14</sup>But Israel stretched out his right hand, and laid it upon
Ephraim's head, for he was the younger, and his left hand upon Manasseh's head, his
hands crosswise. <sup>15</sup>And he blessed them and said, 'The God, in whose sight my fathers
were well pleasing, Abraham and Isaac, the God which continueth to feed me from my
youth until this day, <sup>16</sup>the Angel which delivereth me from all evils, bless these lads; and
my name shall be called upon them, and the name of my fathers Abraham and Isaac;
and let them be multiplied into a great multitude in the earth'. <sup>17</sup>Now Joseph saw that
his father laid his right hand upon the head of Ephraim, and it seemed grievous unto
him. And Joseph took hold of his father's hand, to remove it from Ephraim's head unto
Manasseh's head. <sup>18</sup>And Joseph said unto his father, 'Not so, father, for this is the
firstborn; lay thy right hand upon his head'. <sup>19</sup>And he would not, but said, 'I know it,
son, I know it; he also shall be a people, and he shall be exalted, but his younger
brother shall be greater than he, and his seed shall become a multitude of nations'.
<sup>20</sup>And he blessed them in that day, saying, 'In you shall Israel be blessed', saying, “God
make thee as Ephraim and Manasseh”; and he set Ephraim before Manasseh. <sup>21</sup>And
Israel said unto Joseph, 'Behold, I die, and God shall be with you, and restore you unto
the land of your fathers. <sup>22</sup>And I give unto thee Shechem, a choice portion above thy
brethren, which I took out of the hand of the Amorites with my sword and with my
bow.'