---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 1
chapter_order_number: 01
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>1</sup>
These are the names of the children of Israel, which came into Egypt together
with Jacob their father; they came in each with their whole household;  <sup>2</sup>Reuben,
Simeon, Levi, Judah, <sup>3</sup>Issachar, Zebulun and Benjamin, <sup>4</sup>Dan, and Naphtali, Gad and
Asher. <sup>5</sup>But Joseph was in Egypt. And all the souls that came out of Jacob were five
and seventy. <sup>6</sup>And Joseph died and all his brethren and all that generation. <sup>7</sup>And the
children of Israel increased and multiplied, and became many in number, and waxed
exceeding strong, and the land multiplied with them. 
<sup>8</sup>Now there arose up another king over Egypt, which knew not Joseph. <sup>9</sup>And he
said unto his people, 'Behold, the race of the children of Israel is a great multitude, and
is mightier than we. <sup>10</sup>Come on then, let us deal shrewdly with them lest they multiply,
and whensoever there falleth out war unto us, these also shall be added unto our
enemies, and having waged war against us they will get them up out of the land.' <sup>11</sup>And
he did set over them taskmasters to afflict them in their works, and they builded for
Pharaoh fortified cities, Pithom and Raamses and On, which is Heliopolis. <sup>12</sup>But the<sup>53</sup>more they humbled them, the more they multiplied and grew exceeding strong, and the
Egyptians greatly abhorred the children of Israel. <sup>13</sup>And the Egyptians tyrannized the
children of Israel with rigour. <sup>14</sup>And they grievously afflicted their lives with the hard
labours, in clay, and in brickmaking, and all the works in the plains, according to all
the works wherein they reduced them to servitude with rigour. 
<sup>15</sup>And the king of the Egyptians spake to the Hebrews' midwives; the name of the
one was Shiphrah, and the name of the second Puah. <sup>16</sup>And he said, 'When ye do the
office of midwives to the Hebrew women and they are about to bear, then if it be a male
child, kill it, but if it be a female child, save it'. <sup>17</sup>But the midwives feared God, and did
not as the king of Egypt commanded them but saved the men­children alive. <sup>18</sup>And the
king of Egypt called for the midwives, and said unto them, 'Why is it that ye have done
this thing, and have saved the men children alive?'  <sup>19</sup>And the midwives said unto
Pharaoh, 'The Hebrew women are not as the women of Egypt; for they give birth ere the
midwives go in unto them; so they bear  children'. <sup>20</sup>And God dealt well with the
midwives;  and  the  people  multiplied,  and  waxed  very  strong. <sup>21</sup>And  because  the
midwives feared God, they made them houses. <sup>22</sup>And Pharaoh charged all his people,
saying, 'Every male child that is born to the Hebrews, cast it into the river, and every
female child, save it alive'.