---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 2
chapter_order_number: 02
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---
CHAPTER <sup>2</sup>
  And there was a certain man of the tribe of Levi, which took to wife one of the
daughters of Levi. <sup>2</sup>And she conceived and bare a male child; and when they saw that
he was a goodly child, they hid him three months. <sup>3</sup>And when they could no longer hide
him, his mother took for him a basket, and daubed it with pitch and with slime, and
put the child therein, and she laid it in the marsh by the river. <sup>4</sup>And his sister watched
afar off to wit what would befall him. <sup>5</sup>And the daughter of Pharaoh came down to the
river to bathe, and her maidens walked along by the river's side. And when she saw the
basket in the marsh, she sent her maid, and took it up. <sup>6</sup>And when she had opened it,
she seeth the babe weeping in the ark, and Pharaoh's daughter had compassion on
him, and said, 'This is one of the Hebrews' children'. <sup>7</sup>Then said his sister to Pharaoh's
daughter, 'Wilt thou that I call to thee a nurse of the Hebrews, and she shall suckle the
child for thee?'  <sup>8</sup>And Pharaoh's daughter said, 'Go'; and the young woman went and
called the child's mother. <sup>9</sup>And Pharaoh's daughter said unto her, 'Take care of this
child, and suckle it for me, and I will give thee thy wages'. And the woman took the
child, and suckled it. <sup>10</sup>And when the child was grown, she brought him unto Pharaoh's
daughter, and he became her son, and she called his name Moses, saying, 'I drew him
out of the water'. 
<sup>11</sup>And it came to pass in that length of days, when he was grown, that Moses
went out unto his brethren the children of Israel, and looked on their toil. And he
spieth an Egyptian smiting a certain Hebrew of his brethren, the children of Israel.
<sup>12</sup>And he looked this way and that way, and he seeth no man, and he smote the
Egyptian, and hid him in the sand. <sup>13</sup>And he went out the second day, and he seeth two
Hebrew men striving together, and he sayeth to him that was in the wrong, 'Wherefore
smitest thou thy fellow?' <sup>14</sup>And he said, 'Who made thee a chief and a judge over us?
Intendest thou to kill me, as yesterday thou killedst the Egyptian?' Then Moses feared
and said, 'If it be thus, this thing is become known'. <sup>15</sup>Now when Pharaoh heard this
thing he sought to slay Moses, and Moses departed from the face of Pharaoh, and dwelt
in the land of Midian. And when he was come into the land of Midian, he sat down
upon the well. <sup>16</sup>Now the priest of Midian had seven daughters, which fed their father
Jethro's sheep, and they came and drew water until they filled their pitchers, to water
their father Jethro's sheep. <sup>17</sup>And the shepherds came, and drove them away, but<sup>54</sup>Moses stood up and rescued them, and drew water for them, and watered their sheep.
<sup>18</sup>And they came to Reuel their father, and he said unto them, 'How is it that ye are
come so quickly today?' <sup>19</sup>And they said, 'An Egyptian delivered us from the shepherds
and drew water for us and watered our sheep'. <sup>20</sup>And he said unto his daughters, 'And
where is he, and why is it that ye have left the man? Call him therefore, that he may
eat  bread.'  <sup>21</sup>And  Moses stayed  with the  man, and  he gave  Moses Zipporah  his
daughter to wife. <sup>22</sup>And the woman conceived, and bare a son, and Moses called his
name Gershom, saying, 'I am a sojourner in a strange land'. 
<sup>23</sup>And after those many days, in process of time, the king of Egypt died, and the
children of Israel groaned by reason of their tasks, and their cry came up unto God by
reason of their tasks. <sup>24</sup>And God heard their groaning, and God remembered his
covenant with Abraham and with Isaac and with Jacob. <sup>25</sup>And God looked upon the
children of Israel and was made known unto them.