---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 3
chapter_order_number: 03
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>3</sup>
Now Moses was feeding the flock of Jethro, his father­in­law, the priest of
Midian, and he brought the sheep beyond the desert and came to the mountain, even to
Horeb. <sup>2</sup>And an angel of the LORD appeared unto him in a fire of flame out of the bush,
and he seeth that the bush burneth with fire, but the bush was not consumed. <sup>3</sup>And
Moses said, 'When I pass by, I will see this great sight, why the bush is not consumed'.
<sup>4</sup>And when the LORD saw that he drew nigh to see, the LORD called unto him out of the
bush, saying, 'Moses, Moses'. And he said, 'What is it?' <sup>5</sup>And He said, 'Draw not nigh
hither. Put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place whereon thou standest is holy
ground.' <sup>6</sup>And he said, 'I am the God of thy father, the God of Abraham, and the God of
Isaac, and the God of Jacob'. And Moses turned his face away, for he was afraid to look
upon God. <sup>7</sup>And the LORD said unto Moses, 'I have surely seen the affliction of My
people that are in Egypt, and have heard their groaning by reason of their taskmasters,
for I know their affliction. <sup>8</sup>And I am come down to deliver them out of the hand of the
Egyptians, and to bring them out of that land, and to bring them into a good land and a
wide, into a land flowing with milk and honey, into the place of the Canaanites and the
Hittites and the Amorites and the Perizzites and the Gergashites and the Hivites and the
Jebusites. <sup>9</sup>And now, behold, the cry of the children of Israel is come unto Me, and I
have seen the oppression wherewith the Egyptians oppress them. <sup>10</sup>Come therefore, I
will send thee unto Pharaoh king of Egypt, and thou shalt bring forth My people, the
children of Israel, out of the land of Egypt.' <sup>11</sup>And Moses said unto God, 'Who am I, that
I should go unto Pharaoh king of Egypt, and that I should bring forth the children of
Israel out of Egypt?' <sup>12</sup>And God spake unto Moses, saying, 'I will be with thee, and this
shall be the token unto thee that I shall send thee forth; when thou bringest forth My
people out of Egypt, then shall ye serve God in this mountain'. <sup>13</sup>And Moses said unto
God, 'Behold, I shall go forth unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, “The God
of our fathers hath sent me unto you”. And they shall ask me, “What is His name?”
What shall I say unto them?'  <sup>14</sup>And God spake unto Moses, saying, 'I AM THE ONE
THAT IS'; and He said, 'Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, “THE ONE
THAT IS hath sent me unto you.” ' <sup>15</sup>And God said moreover unto Moses, 'Thus shalt
thou say unto the children of Israel; “The LORD God of our fathers, the God of Abraham
and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob, hath sent me unto you”. This is My name
for ever, and My memorial unto generations of generations. <sup>16</sup>Go therefore, and gather
the elders of Israel together, and thou shalt say unto them, “The LORD God of our
fathers hath appeared unto me, the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God
of Jacob, saying, 'I have surely looked upon you, and upon all the things which have
befallen you in Egypt'. <sup>17</sup>And he said, “I will bring you up out of the affliction of the<sup>55</sup>Egyptians, unto the land of the Canaanites, and the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the
Perizzites, and the Gergashites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites, unto a land flowing
with milk and honey”. ' <sup>18</sup>And they shall hearken to thy voice, and thou shalt go in,
thou and the elders of Israel, unto the king of Egypt, and thou shalt say unto him, “The
God of the Hebrews hath called us; we will go then a three days journey into the
wilderness, that we may sacrifice to our God”. <sup>19</sup>But I know that Pharaoh king of Egypt
will not let you go save with a mighty hand; <sup>20</sup>and I will stretch out My hand, and smite
Egypt with all My wonders, which I will do in the midst of them, and after that he will
send you forth. <sup>21</sup>And I will give this people favour in the sight of the Egyptians; and
whensoever ye depart, ye shall not go away empty. <sup>22</sup>But every woman shall ask of her
neighbour, and of her that sojourneth in her house, things of gold and of silver and
raiment. And ye shall put them upon your sons, and upon your daughters, and ye shall
spoil the Egyptians.'