---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 4
chapter_order_number: 04
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---


CHAPTER <sup>4</sup>
And Moses answered and said, 'If they believe me not, nor hearken unto my
voice; for they will say, “God hath not appeared unto thee”, what shall I say unto them?'
<sup>2</sup>And the LORD said, “What is this thing that is in thine hand?” And he said, “A rod.”
<sup>3</sup>And he said, 'Cast it on the ground'. And he cast it on the ground, and it became a
serpent, and Moses fled from before it. <sup>4</sup>And the LORD said unto Moses, 'Put forth
thine hand, and take hold of the tail'. So he put forth his hand, and took hold of the
tail, and it became a rod in his hand; <sup>5</sup>“that they may believe thee, that the God of thy
fathers, the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, hath
appeared unto thee”. <sup>6</sup>And the LORD said furthermore unto him, 'Put thine hand into
thy bosom'. And he put his hand into his bosom, and brought his hand out of his
bosom, and his hand became as snow. <sup>7</sup>And He said, 'Put thine hand into thy bosom'.
And he put his hand into his bosom, and brought his hand out of his bosom; and it was
again restored to the colour of his other flesh. <sup>8</sup>'And if they will not believe thee, neither
hearken unto the voice of the first sign, they will believe thee because of the voice of the
second sign. <sup>9</sup>And it shall come to pass, if they will not believe thee for these two signs,
neither hearken unto thy voice, that thou shalt take of the water of the river, and pour
it upon the dry land; and the water which thou shalt take out of the river shall be blood
upon the dry land.'  <sup>10</sup>And Moses said unto the LORD, 'Pray, LORD, I have not been
sufficient before yesterday, neither before the third day, neither from the time that Thou
hast begun to speak unto thy servant. I am weak in speech, and slow of tongue.' <sup>11</sup>And
the LORD said unto Moses, 'Who hath given a tongue unto man, and who hath made
the very hard of hearing and the dumb, the seeing and the blind? Have not I, God?
<sup>12</sup>Now therefore go, and I will open thy mouth and teach thee what thou shalt say.'
<sup>13</sup>And Moses said, 'O LORD, appoint, I pray thee, another able person, whom Thou shalt
send'. <sup>14</sup>And the LORD was greatly angered against Moses, and said, “Lo, is not Aaron
the Levite thy brother? I know that he will surely speak to thee, and behold, he will
come forth to meet thee; and when he beholdeth thee, he shall rejoice within himself.
<sup>15</sup>And thou shalt speak to him, and thou shalt put My words into his mouth, and I will
open thy mouth and his mouth, and I will teach you what ye shall do. <sup>16</sup>And he shall
speak for thee unto the people, and he shall be thy mouth, and thou shalt be to him in
things that pertain unto God. <sup>17</sup>And thou shalt take this rod in thine hand, that was
turned into a serpent, wherewith thou shalt work wonders.' 
<sup>18</sup>And Moses went and returned to Jethro, his father­in­law, and saith, 'I will go
and return to my brethren in Egypt, and see if they be yet alive'. And Jethro said to
Moses, 'Go in health'. Now in those days, after a season, the king of Egypt died. <sup>19</sup>And
the LORD said unto Moses in Midian, 'Go, return into Egypt, for all them that sought<sup>56</sup>thy life are dead'. <sup>20</sup>And Moses took his wife, and his children, and mounted them on
the beasts, and he returned to Egypt. And Moses took the rod, which he had of God, in
his hand. <sup>21</sup>And the LORD said unto Moses, 'When thou goest and returnest to Egypt,
see, all the wonders I have put into thine hands, thou shalt perform them before
Pharaoh. And I will harden his heart, and he shall certainly not send away the people.
<sup>22</sup>And thou shalt say to Pharaoh, “Thus saith the LORD; Israel is my firstborn. <sup>23</sup>And I
said unto thee, Send away My people, that they may serve Me; now if thou wilt not send
them away, see, I will slay thy firstborn son.” ' <sup>24</sup>And it came to pass by the way in the
inn, that the angel of the LORD met him, and sought to kill him. <sup>25</sup>And Zipporah took a
stone, and cut off the foreskin of her son, and fell at his feet, and said, 'The blood of the
circumcision of my son is staunched'. <sup>26</sup>And he went away from him, because she said,
'The blood of the circumcision of my son is staunched'. 
<sup>27</sup>And the LORD said to Aaron, 'Go into the wilderness to meet Moses'. And he
went and met him in the mount of God, and they kissed each other. <sup>28</sup>And Moses told
Aaron all the words of the LORD which He sent, and all the signs which He had
commanded him. <sup>29</sup>And Moses and Aaron went, and gathered together the elders of the
children of Israel. <sup>30</sup>And Aaron spake all these words which God had spoken unto
Moses, and did the signs before the people. <sup>31</sup>And the people believed and rejoiced,
because that God had visited the children of Israel, and because that He had seen their
affliction; and the people bowed and worshipped.