---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 5
chapter_order_number: 05
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---


CHAPTER <sup>5</sup>
And after this Moses and Aaron went in unto Pharaoh, and said unto him,
'Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, “Send My people away, that they may hold a feast
unto Me in the wilderness.” '  <sup>2</sup>And Pharaoh said, 'Who is he, that I should hearken
unto His voice, to send away the children of Israel? I know not the LORD, neither will I
send Israel away.'  <sup>3</sup>And they say unto him, 'The God of the Hebrews hath called us
unto Him. We will therefore go three days journey into the desert, that we may sacrifice
unto the LORD our God, lest at any time death or slaughter befall us.' <sup>4</sup>And the king of
Egypt said unto them, 'Wherefore do ye, Moses and Aaron, turn the people from their
works? get each of you unto your works'. <sup>5</sup>And Pharaoh said, 'Behold now, the people is
very many in number; let us not give them rest from their labour'. <sup>6</sup>And Pharaoh
commanded the taskmasters of the people, and the recorders, saying, <sup>7</sup>'Ye shall no more
give the people straw to make brick, as yesterday and the third day, but let them go
themselves, and gather straw for themselves. <sup>8</sup>And the tale of brickmaking, which they
themselves make daily, thou shalt lay upon them; ye shall not diminish aught thereof ;
for they be idle; therefore have they cried, saying, “Let us arise and sacrifice unto our
God”. <sup>9</sup>Let the works of these men be made grievous, and let them care for these things,
and let them not regard vain words.' <sup>10</sup>And the taskmasters and the recorders hasted
them, and they spake to the people, saying, 'Thus saith Pharaoh; “I will no more give
you straw. <sup>11</sup>Go ye, get you straw wheresoever you can find it; for not aught of your rate
is diminished.” ' <sup>12</sup>So the people were scattered abroad throughout all the land of Egypt
to gather stubble for straw. <sup>13</sup>And the taskmasters hasted them, saying, 'Fulfil your
customary daily works, as when straw was given you.' <sup>14</sup>And the recorders of the race
of the children of Israel, which were set over them by Pharaoh's taskmasters, were
beaten, saying, 'Wherefore have ye not fulfilled your tally of brickmaking as yesterday
and the third day and today?' <sup>15</sup>Then the recorders of the children of Israel went in, and
cried unto Pharaoh, saying, 'Wherefore dealest thou thus with thy servants? <sup>16</sup>There is
no straw given unto thy servants, and they tell us to make brick; and behold, thy
servants are scourged; thou wilt therefore deal unjustly with thine own people'. <sup>17</sup>But he
said unto them, 'Ye are idle, ye are idlers; therefore ye say, “Let us go and do sacrifice to<sup>57</sup>our God”. <sup>18</sup>Go therefore now, and work; for there shall no straw be given you, yet shall
ye deliver the tale of bricks.' <sup>19</sup>And the recorders of the children of Israel did see that
they were in evil case, because they said, 'Ye shall not come short of the brickmaking
daily'. <sup>20</sup>And they met Moses and Aaron coming forth to meet them as they came forth
from Pharaoh, <sup>21</sup>and they said unto them, 'God look upon you and judge, because ye
have made our savour to be abominable in the eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes of his
servants, to put a sword in his hands to slay us'. <sup>22</sup>And Moses turned unto the LORD,
and said, 'LORD, wherefore hast Thou evil entreated this people? and why is it that
Thou hast sent me? <sup>23</sup>For since the time that I went to Pharaoh to speak in Thy name,
he hath evil entreated this people, neither hast Thou delivered Thy people.”