---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 6
chapter_order_number: 06
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>6</sup>
And the LORD said unto Moses, 'Now shalt thou see what I will do to Pharaoh;
for with a strong hand shall he let them go, and with an high arm shall he cast them
out of his land'. 
<sup>2</sup>And God spake unto Moses, and said unto him, 'I am LORD; <sup>3</sup>and I appeared
unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob, being their God; but My name 'LORD'
manifested I not to them. <sup>4</sup>And I have also established My covenant with them, to give
them the land of the Canaanites, the land wherein they sojourned, wherein also they
dwelt as strangers. <sup>5</sup>And I have hearkened to the groaning of the children of Israel, the
affliction wherewith the Egyptians keep them in bondage; and I have remembered your
covenant. <sup>6</sup>Go, speak unto the children of Israel, saying, “I am the LORD, and I will
bring you out from the dominion of the Egyptians, and I will rid you out of their
bondage, and I will redeem you with an high arm, and with great judgment. <sup>7</sup>And I will
take you to Me for My people, and I will be to you a God; and ye shall know that I am
the LORD your God, which brought you out from under the tyranny of the Egyptians.
<sup>8</sup>And I will bring you in unto the land, concerning the which I did stretch forth my
hand, to give it to Abraham, to Isaac and to Jacob; and I will give it you for a heritage; I
am LORD.” ' <sup>9</sup>And Moses spake so unto the children of Israel, but they hearkened not
unto Moses for faintheartedness, and for the hard tasks. 
<sup>10</sup>And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <sup>11</sup>'Go in, speak unto Pharaoh king
of Egypt, that he send forth the children of Israel out of his land'. <sup>12</sup>And Moses spake
before the LORD, saying, 'Behold, the children of Israel have not hearkened unto me;
how then shall Pharaoh hear me? for I am not eloquent'. <sup>13</sup>And the LORD spake unto
Moses and unto Aaron, and gave them a charge unto Pharaoh king of Egypt, to send
away the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt. 
<sup>14</sup>And these be the heads of the houses of their families; the sons of Reuben the
firstborn of Israel; Enoch, and Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi; this is the family of Reuben.
<sup>15</sup>And the sons of Simeon; Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and
Shaul the son of the Phoenician woman ; these are the families of the sons of Simeon.
<sup>16</sup>And these are the names of the sons of Levi according to their families; Gershon, and
Kohath, and Merari; and the years of the life of Levi were an hundred thirty and seven
years. <sup>17</sup>And these be the sons of Gershon; Libni, and Shimi, the houses of their family.
And the sons of Kohath; <sup>18</sup>Amram, and Izhaar, and Hebron, and Uzziel. And the years
of the life of Kohath were an hundred thirty and three years. <sup>19</sup>And the sons of Merari;
Mahali and Mushi. These are the houses of the families of Levi according to their
kindreds. <sup>20</sup>And Amram took him Jochebed the daughter of his father's brother to wife,
and she bare him both Moses and Aaron, and Miriam their sister. And the years of the
life of Amram were an hundred and thirty and two years. <sup>21</sup>And the sons of Izhar;
Korah, and Nepheg, and Zichri. <sup>22</sup>And the sons of Uzziel; Mishael, and Elzaphan, and
Zithri. <sup>23</sup>And Aaron took him Elisheba, daughter of Amminadab, sister of Naashon, to<sup>58</sup>wife, and she bare him both Nadab, and Abihu, and Eleazar, and Ithamar. <sup>24</sup>And the
sons of Korah; Assir, and Elkanah, and Abiasaph; these are the generations of Korah.
<sup>25</sup>And Eleazar Aaron's son took him one of the daughters of Putiel to wife, and she bare
him Phinehas; these are the heads of the family of the Levites according to their
generations. <sup>26</sup>This is Moses and Aaron, whom God told to bring out the children of
Israel from the land of Egypt with their armies. <sup>27</sup>These are they which spake with
Pharaoh king of Egypt, and they brought out the children of Israel from the land of
Egypt, Aaron himself and Moses. 
<sup>28</sup>On the day wherein the LORD spake unto Moses in the land of Egypt, <sup>29</sup>then
the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 'I am the LORD; speak thou unto Pharaoh king of
Egypt whatsoever I say unto thee'. <sup>30</sup>And Moses said before the LORD, 'Behold, I am not
eloquent; and how shall Pharaoh hearken unto me?'