---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 7
chapter_order_number: 07
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---
CHAPTER <sup>7</sup>
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 'See, I have made thee a god to
Pharaoh, and Aaron thy brother shall be thy prophet. <sup>2</sup>And thou shalt speak to him all
things that I command thee; and Aaron thy brother shall speak unto Pharaoh, that he
send the children of Israel out of his land. <sup>3</sup>But I will harden Pharaoh's heart, and
multiply My signs and My wonders in the land of Egypt. <sup>4</sup>But Pharaoh shall not
hearken unto you, and I will lay my hand upon Egypt, and bring forth My people the
children of Israel with my power, out of the land of Egypt with great vengeance. <sup>5</sup>And
all the Egyptians shall know that I am the LORD, when I stretch forth My hand upon
Egypt, and I will bring out the children of Israel from among them.'  <sup>6</sup>And Moses and
Aaron did as the LORD commanded them, so did they. <sup>7</sup>Now Moses was fourscore years
old and Aaron his brother fourscore and three years old, when he spake unto Pharaoh. 
<sup>8</sup>And the LORD spake unto Moses and Aaron, saying, <sup>9</sup>'Now if Pharaoh speak
unto you, saying, “Give us a sign or a wonder”, then thou shalt say unto Aaron thy
brother, “Take the rod, and cast it upon the ground before Pharaoh”, and it shall
become a serpent.'  <sup>10</sup>Now Moses and Aaron went in before Pharaoh, and before his
servants, and they did so as the LORD had commanded them. And Aaron cast down
his rod before Pharaoh, and before his servants, and it became a serpent. <sup>11</sup>But
Pharaoh called the wise men of Egypt, and the sorcerers; and the charmers also of the
Egyptians did in like manner with their enchantments. <sup>12</sup>And they cast down each their
rod, and they became serpents, but Aaron's rod swallowed up the rods of those men.
<sup>13</sup>And Pharaoh's heart was hardened, and he hearkened not unto them, as the LORD
had said unto them.
<sup>14</sup>Now the LORD said unto Moses, 'Pharaoh's heart is weighed down, that he
shall not send the people away. <sup>15</sup>Get thee unto Pharaoh in the morning; lo, he goeth
out unto the water, and thou shalt meet him on the river's brink, and the rod which
was turned into a serpent shalt thou take in thine hand. <sup>16</sup>And thou shalt say unto
him, “The LORD God of the Hebrews hath sent me unto thee, saying, 'Send My people
away that they may serve Me in the wilderness'; and behold, hitherto thou hast not
hearkened.'  <sup>17</sup>Thus saith the LORD; 'In this thou shalt know that I am the LORD.
Behold, I will smite with the rod that is in my hand upon the water, which is in the
river, and it shall turn it into blood. <sup>18</sup>And the fish that are in the river shall die, and
the river shall stink, and the Egyptians shall be unable to drink of the water of the
river.' ” ' <sup>19</sup>Now the LORD said unto Moses, 'Say unto Aaron thy brother, “Take thy rod
in thine hand, and stretch out thine hand over the waters of Egypt, and over their
rivers, and over their canals, and over their marshes, and over all their standing water,
and they shall be blood.” ' And there was blood throughout all the land of Egypt, both
in vessels of wood, and in vessels of stone. <sup>20</sup>And Moses and Aaron did so as the LORD<sup>59</sup>commanded them, and Aaron lifted up his hand with his rod, and smote the water in
the river in the sight of Pharaoh, and in the sight of his servants; and all the water that
was in the river turned he to blood. <sup>21</sup>And the fish that were in the river died, and the
river stank, and the Egyptians could not drink of the water of the river, and there was
blood in all the land of Egypt. <sup>22</sup>But the charmers also of the Egyptians did so with
their enchantments, and Pharaoh's heart was hardened; neither did he hearken unto
them, as the LORD had said. <sup>23</sup>And Pharaoh turned, and went into his house, neither
did he set his mind to this also. <sup>24</sup>But all the Egyptians dug round about the river, that
they might drink water; and they could not drink of the water of the river. <sup>25</sup>And seven
days were fulfilled after that the LORD had smitten the river. 
<sup>26</sup>And the LORD spake unto Moses, 'Go in unto Pharaoh, and thou shalt say
unto him, “Thus saith the LORD; 'Send My people away, that they may serve Me. <sup>27</sup>And
if thou be not willing to send them forth, behold, I will smite all thy borders with frogs.
<sup>28</sup>And the river shall teem with frogs, and they shall go up and come into thine houses,
and into secret places of thy bedchambers, and upon thy beds, and upon the houses of
thy servants and of thy people, and in thy dough, and in thine ovens. <sup>29</sup>And the frogs
shall come up both on thee, and upon thy servants, and upon thy people.' ” '