---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 8
chapter_order_number: 08
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---


CHAPTER <sup>8</sup>
Then the LORD spake unto Moses, 'Say unto Aaron thy brother, “Stretch forth
with the hand thy rod over the rivers, over the canals, and over the marshes, and bring
up the frogs” '. <sup>2</sup>And Aaron stretched out his hand over the waters of Egypt, and
brought up the frogs, and the frog was brought up and covered the land of Egypt. <sup>3</sup>And
the magicians of the Egyptians did so with their sorceries, and brought up the frogs
upon the land of Egypt. <sup>4</sup>Then Pharaoh called Moses and Aaron and said, 'Pray for me
to the LORD, and let him take away the frogs from me, and from my people; and I will
send them away, and they shall do sacrifice unto the LORD'. <sup>5</sup>And Moses said unto
Pharaoh, 'Appoint me a time when I shall pray for thee, and for thy servants, and for
thy people, to cause the frogs to disappear from thee and thy people, and from your
houses; only in the river shall they be left behind'. <sup>6</sup>And he said, 'On the morrow'. He
said therefore, 'As thou hast said; that thou mayest know that there is none other but
the LORD. <sup>7</sup>And the frogs shall be removed away from thee, and from your houses, and
from the villages, and from thy servants, and from thy people; they shall be left in the
river only.' <sup>8</sup>And Moses and Aaron went out from Pharaoh, and Moses cried unto the
LORD touching the curtailing of the frogs, as he had said unto Pharaoh. <sup>9</sup>And the
LORD did as Moses said, and the frogs died out of the houses, and out of the villages,
and out of the fields. <sup>10</sup>And they gathered them together upon heaps, and the land
stank. <sup>11</sup>But when Pharaoh saw that there was respite, his heart was hardened, and he
hearkened not unto them; as the LORD had said. 
<sup>12</sup>And the LORD said unto Moses, 'Say unto Aaron, “Stretch out thy rod with
thine hand, and smite the dust of the earth”, and there shall be lice upon man and
upon four­footed beasts and in all the land of Egypt'. <sup>13</sup>So Aaron stretched out his hand
with his rod, and smote the dust of the earth, and the lice were upon man and upon
four­footed beasts; and in all the dust of the earth there were lice. <sup>14</sup>But the magicians
also did so with their enchantments to bring forth the louse, but they could not. And
the lice were both upon the men, and upon the four­footed beasts. <sup>15</sup>Therefore the
magicians said unto Pharaoh, 'This is the finger of God'. But Pharaoh's heart was
hardened, and he hearkened not unto them, as the LORD had said. 
<sup>16</sup>And the LORD said unto Moses, 'Rise up early in the morning, and stand
before Pharaoh. And lo, he will go forth to the water, and thou shalt say unto him,
“Thus saith the LORD; 'Send My people away, that they may serve Me in the wilderness.<sup>6017</sup>And if thou wilt not send My people away, behold, I will send the dog­fly upon thee,
and upon thy servants, and upon thy people, and upon your houses; and the houses of
the Egyptians shall be filled with the dog­fly, even throughout the land whereon they
are. <sup>18</sup>And I will distinguish gloriously in that day the land of Goshen, in which My
people dwell, wherein the dog­fly shall not be, to the end thou mayest know that I am
the LORD, the God of all the earth. <sup>19</sup>And I will put a difference between My people and
thy people, and on the morrow shall this be upon the land.' ” ' <sup>20</sup>And the LORD did so,
and there came the dog­fly in abundance into the houses of Pharaoh, and into his
servants' houses, and into all the land of Egypt; and the land was destroyed by reason
of the dog­fly. <sup>21</sup>Then Pharaoh called for Moses and for Aaron and said, 'Go ye, and
sacrifice to the LORD your God in the land'. <sup>22</sup>And Moses said, 'It cannot be so, for we
should sacrifice the abominations of the Egyptians to the LORD, our God; for if we
sacrifice the abominations of the Egyptians before them, we shall be stoned. <sup>23</sup>We will
go a three days' journey into the wilderness, and sacrifice to the LORD our God, as the
LORD said unto us.' <sup>24</sup>And Pharaoh said, 'I will send you away, and do ye sacrifice to
your God in the wilderness, but go not very far away; pray then for me unto the LORD'.
<sup>25</sup>And Moses said, 'I will then go out from thee, and I will pray unto God, and the dog­fly
shall depart from both from thy servants, and from thy people tomorrow. Do not thou,
Pharaoh, deal deceitfully any more, in that thou send not the people away to sacrifice
unto the LORD.'  <sup>26</sup>And Moses went out from Pharaoh, and entreated God. <sup>27</sup>And the
LORD did as Moses said; and he removed the dog­fly from Pharaoh, from his servants,
and from his people; and there was left not one. <sup>28</sup>And Pharaoh hardened his heart at
this time also, neither would he send the people away.