---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 9
chapter_order_number: 09
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>9</sup>
Then the LORD said unto Moses, 'Go in unto Pharaoh, and thou shalt say unto
him, “Thus saith the LORD God of the Hebrews; 'Send My people away, that they may
serve Me. <sup>2</sup>But if thou wilt not send them away but wilt hold them still, <sup>3</sup>behold, the
hand of the LORD shall be upon thy cattle which is in the fields, upon the horses, and
upon the asses, and upon the camels, and upon the oxen, and upon the sheep, a very
great death. <sup>4</sup>And I will make a glorious distinction between the cattle of the Egyptians
and the cattle of the children of Israel; there shall nothing die of all that is of the
children of Israel.' ” ' <sup>5</sup>And God gave a set time, saying, 'Tomorrow the LORD shall do
this thing in the land'. <sup>6</sup>And the LORD did this thing on the morrow, and all the cattle
of Egypt died, but of the cattle of the children of Israel died not one. <sup>7</sup>And when
Pharaoh saw that of all the cattle of the children of Israel there died not one, the heart
of Pharaoh was hardened, and he did not let the people go. 
<sup>8</sup>And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying, 'Take to you
handfuls of ashes of the furnace, and let Moses scatter it toward the heaven before
Pharaoh, and before his servants. <sup>9</sup>And let it become dust over all the land of Egypt,
and there shall be upon men and upon beasts sores, blains, breaking forth upon men
and upon beasts in all the land of Egypt.'  <sup>10</sup>So he took of the ashes of the furnace
before Pharaoh, and Moses scattered it toward heaven, and it became sore blains
breaking forth both upon men and upon beasts. <sup>11</sup>And the magicians could not stand
before Moses because of the sores, for the sores were upon the magicians and in all the
land of Egypt. <sup>12</sup>And the LORD hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he hearkened not
to them, as the LORD had appointed. 
<sup>13</sup>And the LORD said unto Moses, 'Rise up early in the morning, and stand
before Pharaoh, and thou shalt say unto him, “Thus saith the LORD God of the
Hebrews; “Send My people away that they may serve Me. <sup>14</sup>For I do at this time send all
Mine events into thine heart, and the heart of thy servants, and of thy people; that thou<sup>61</sup>mayest know that there is none other like Me in all the earth. <sup>15</sup>For now I will stretch
out My hand, and smite thee, and strike thee and thy people with death, and thou shalt
be cut off from the earth. <sup>16</sup>And for this cause hast thou been preserved, that I might
shew My power in thee and that My name might be declared throughout all the earth.
<sup>17</sup>As yet exaltest thou thyself to hinder My people, that thou let them not go? <sup>18</sup>Behold,
tomorrow at this hour I will rain a very great hail, such as hath not been in Egypt since
the the foundation thereof until this day. <sup>19</sup>Therefore now haste thee to gather thy
cattle, and all that thou hast in the fields; for all the men and cattle as many as shall be
found in the field, and shall not enter into a house, but the hail shall fall upon them,
shall die.' ” ' <sup>20</sup>He that feared the word of the LORD amongst the servants of Pharaoh
gathered his cattle into the houses. <sup>21</sup>And he that heeded not in his mind the word of
the LORD left the cattle in the fields. <sup>22</sup>And the LORD said unto Moses, 'Stretch forth
thine hand unto the heaven, and there shall be hail on all the land of Egypt upon the
men and upon the cattle and upon all herb which is on the land'. <sup>23</sup>And Moses
stretched forth his rod unto heaven, and the LORD sent thunder and hail, and the fire
ran along upon the ground, and the LORD rained hail upon all the land of Egypt. <sup>24</sup>So
there was hail, and flaming fire mingled with the hail, and the hail was very great, such
as there was not in Egypt since there was a nation upon it. <sup>25</sup>And the hail smote in all
the land of Egypt, both man and beast; and the hail smote every herb in the field, and
the hail brake all the trees in the field. <sup>26</sup>Only in the land of Goshen, where the children
of Israel were, was there no hail. <sup>27</sup>And Pharaoh sent, and called for Moses and Aaron,
and said unto them, 'I have sinned this time; the LORD is righteous, and I and my
people  are  wicked. <sup>28</sup>Pray  then  for  me  unto  the  LORD,  and  let  Him  cause  the
thunderings of God to cease, and the hail and the fire, and I will send you forth, and ye
shall stay no longer.' <sup>29</sup>And Moses said unto him, 'As soon as I am gone out of the city, I
will spread abroad my hands unto the LORD, and the thunder shall cease, and the hail
and the rain shall be no more; that thou mayest know how that the earth is the
LORD's. <sup>30</sup>But as for thee and thy servants, I know that ye have not yet feared the
LORD.' <sup>31</sup>And the flax and the barley were smitten, for the barley was in the ear, and
the flax was gone to seed. <sup>32</sup>But the wheat and the rye were not smitten; for they were
late. <sup>33</sup>And Moses went out of the city from Pharaoh, and spread abroad his hands unto
the LORD; and the thunders ceased, and the hail, and the rain did not drop upon the
earth. <sup>34</sup>And when Pharaoh saw that the rain and the hail and the thunders were
ceased, he sinned yet more, and hardened his heart, and his servants' hearts. <sup>35</sup>And
the heart of Pharaoh was hardened, neither did he send forth the children of Israel, as
the LORD had said unto Moses.