---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 10
chapter_order_number: 10
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>10</sup>
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 'Go in unto Pharaoh; for I have
hardened his heart, and the heart of his servants, that these signs might come upon
them one upon another; <sup>2</sup>that ye may tell in the ears of your children, and of your
children's children, in how many things I have mocked the Egyptians, and My signs
which I have done among them, and ye shall know that I am LORD'. <sup>3</sup>And Moses and
Aaron went in before Pharaoh, and said unto him, 'Thus saith the LORD God of the
Hebrews; “How long wilt thou refuse to reverence Me? Send My people away, that they
may serve Me. <sup>4</sup>But if thou wilt not send My people away, behold, tomorrow at this
hour will I bring an abundance of locusts upon all thy borders. <sup>5</sup>And they shall cover
the face of the earth, and thou shalt not be able to see the earth, and they shall devour
all that is left of the abundance of the earth, which the hail hath left you, and shall
devour every tree which groweth for you in the land. <sup>6</sup>And thy houses shall be filled,
and the houses of thy servants, and all the houses in all the land of the Egyptians,<sup>62</sup>which things thy fathers have never seen, nor their fathers from the day that they were
upon the earth unto this day.” '  And Moses turned himself, and went out from
Pharaoh. <sup>7</sup>And Pharaoh's servants say unto him, 'How long shall this be a snare unto
us? Send the people away, that they may serve their God; or wilt thou know that Egypt
is destroyed?'  <sup>8</sup>And they brought again Moses and Aaron unto Pharaoh; and he said
unto them, 'Go, serve the LORD your God; but who are they that shall go with you?'
<sup>9</sup>And Moses saith, 'We will go with the young and with the old, with our sons and with
our daughters, with our sheep and with our cattle, for it is a feast of the LORD our
God'. <sup>10</sup>And he said unto them, 'Let the LORD be so with you; as I send you away, must
I send away your store also? Take heed that evil lieth nigh unto you. <sup>11</sup>Not so; but let
the men go, and serve God, for this ye yourselves do seek.' And they drove them out
from Pharaoh's presence. <sup>12</sup>And the LORD said unto Moses, 'Stretch out thine hand
over the land of Egypt, and let the locust come up upon the land, and it shall devour
every herb of the land and all the fruit of the trees which the hail hath left'. <sup>13</sup>And
Moses lifted up the rod toward heaven, and the LORD brought a south wind upon the
land all that day, and all that night. When the morning came, the south wind took up
the locusts, <sup>14</sup>and brought them up over all the land of Egypt; and they rested in very
great abundance over all the borders of Egypt. Before them there were no such locusts,
as neither after them shall be such. <sup>15</sup>And they covered the face of the earth, and the
land was wasted, and they did devour every herb of the land, and all the fruit of the
trees which was left by the hail. There was left no green thing on the trees, nor on all
the herbs of the field, in all the land of Egypt. <sup>16</sup>Then Pharaoh hasted to call for Moses
and  Aaron,  saying,  'I  have  sinned  before  the  LORD  your  God  and  against  you;
<sup>17</sup>therefore bear with my sin yet this time, and pray unto the LORD your God, and let
Him take away from me this death.' <sup>18</sup>And Moses went out from Pharaoh, and prayed
unto God. <sup>19</sup>And the LORD turned a vehement wind from the sea, and it took up the
locusts, and cast them into the Red Sea; and there was not one locust left in all the
land of Egypt. <sup>20</sup>And the LORD hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he sent not away the
children of Israel. 
<sup>21</sup>Then the LORD said unto Moses, 'Stretch out thine hand toward heaven, and
let there be darkness over the land of Egypt, even darkness which may be felt'. <sup>22</sup>And
Moses stretched forth his hand toward heaven, and there was darkness, blackness, and
a storm over all the land of Egypt three days. <sup>23</sup>And for three days saw no man his
brother, neither rose up any man from his bed for three days; but all the children of
Israel had light in all the places where they dwelt. <sup>24</sup>And Pharaoh called Moses and
Aaron, and said, 'Go ye, serve the LORD your God; only leave behind your sheep and
your oxen; let your store also depart with you'. <sup>25</sup>And Moses said, 'But thou also shalt
give us whole burnt­offerings and sacrifices, which we shall sacrifice unto the LORD our
God. <sup>26</sup>Our cattle also shall go with us, and we shall not leave a hoof behind; for thereof
shall we take, to serve the LORD our God; but we know not in what manner we shall
serve the LORD our God, until we come thither.' <sup>27</sup>But the LORD hardened Pharaoh's
heart, and he would not let them go. <sup>28</sup>And Pharaoh saith, Get thee from me; take heed
that thou see my face no more, for in that day thou shalt appear before me, thou shalt
die'. <sup>29</sup>And Moses saith, 'Thou hast spoken; I will appear before thy face no more'.