---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 11
chapter_order_number: 11
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>11</sup>
And  the  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  'Yet  will  I  bring  one  plague  more upon
Pharaoh, and upon Egypt, and afterwards he will send you away hence. And when he
shall send you away with every thing, he shall surely thrust you out. <sup>2</sup>Speak therefore
privily in the ears of the people, and let every man ask of his neighbour things of silver
and gold and raiment.'  <sup>3</sup>And the LORD gave his people favour in the sight of the<sup>63</sup>Egyptians, and they gave unto them. And the man Moses was very great in the sight of
the Egyptians, and in the sight of Pharaoh, and in the sight of his servants. 
<sup>4</sup>And Moses said, 'Thus saith the LORD; “About midnight will I go out into the
midst of Egypt. <sup>5</sup>And all the firstborn in the land of Egypt shall die, from the firstborn
of Egypt that sitteth upon his throne, even unto the firstborn of the maidservant that is
beside the mill, and unto the firstborn of all cattle. <sup>6</sup>And there shall be a great cry
throughout all the land of Egypt, such as hath not been before, nor shall be again any
more.”  <sup>7</sup>But among all the children of Israel shall not a dog growl with his tongue,
against man or beast; that ye may know by what the LORD shall put a difference
gloriously between the Egyptians and Israel. <sup>8</sup>And all these thy servants shall come
down unto me and bow down themselves unto me, saying, “Get thee out, and all the
people that follow thee”; and after that I will go out.'   And Moses went out from
Pharaoh in anger. <sup>9</sup>And the LORD said unto Moses, 'Pharaoh shall not hearken unto
you, that I may greatly multiply My signs and wonders in the land of Egypt'. <sup>10</sup>And
Moses and Aaron did all these signs and wonders in the land of Egypt before Pharaoh;
and the LORD hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he hearkened not to let the children of
Israel go out of the land of Egypt.