---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 12
chapter_order_number: 12
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>12</sup>
Then the LORD spake unto Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt, saying,
<sup>2</sup>'This month shall be unto you the beginning of months; it is first among the months of
the year to you. <sup>3</sup>Speak ye unto all the congregation of the children of Israel, saying, “In
the tenth of this month let them take each man a sheep, according to the houses of
their families, every man a sheep for each household. <sup>4</sup>And if they be few in a
household, that there be not enough for a sheep, he shall take with him his neighbour
that liveth next unto him, according to the number of souls; every man according to
that which sufficeth him shall make a reckoning for the sheep. <sup>5</sup>It shall be unto you a
sheep without blemish, a male of the first year; ye shall take it out from the lambs, and
from the kids. <sup>6</sup>And it shall be kept for you up until the fourteenth day of the month;
and the whole multitude of the congregation of the children of Israel shall kill it toward
evening. <sup>7</sup>And they shall take of the blood, and put it on the two side­posts and on the
upper door­post in the houses wherein they shall eat them. <sup>8</sup>And they shall eat the
flesh in this night, roast with fire, and they shall eat unleavened bread with bitter
herbs. <sup>9</sup>Ye shall not eat of it raw, nor seethed in water, but only roast with fire; the
head with the feet, and with the purtenances thereof. <sup>10</sup>Thou shalt not leave any of it
until the morning, and a bone of it shall ye not break; but that which remaineth of it
until the morning ye shall burn with fire. <sup>11</sup>And thus shall ye eat it; with your loins
girded, and your sandals on your feet, and your staffs in your hands; and ye shall eat it
in haste; it is a Passover to the LORD. <sup>12</sup>And I will pass through the land of Egypt in
that night, and will smite every firstborn in the land of Egypt, both man and beast, and
on all the gods of Egypt I will execute judgment; I am the LORD. <sup>13</sup>And the blood shall
be to you for a token upon the houses where ye are; and I will see the blood, and will
protect you, and the plague of destruction shall not be upon you, when I smite the land
of Egypt. <sup>14</sup>And this day shall be unto you for a memorial, and ye shall keep it a feast to
the LORD throughout all your generations; ye shall keep it a feast by an ordinance for
ever. <sup>15</sup>Seven days shall ye eat unleavened bread, even from the first day ye shall put
away leaven out of your houses; whosoever eateth leaven from the first day until the
seventh day, that soul shall be cut off from Israel. <sup>16</sup>And the first day shall be called
holy, and the seventh day to you shall be called holy. No servile work shall ye do in
them, save only that which shall be done for every soul; this only shall be done by you.
<sup>17</sup>And ye shall keep this commandment, for in this day will I bring your host out of the
land of Egypt; therefore shall ye make this day for you throughout your generations by
an ordinance for ever. <sup>18</sup>Beginning the fourteenth day of the first month from even,<sup>64</sup>shall ye eat unleavened bread, until the one and twentieth day of the month until even.
<sup>19</sup>Seven days' leaven shall there be found in your houses. Whosoever eateth of aught
that is leavened, even that soul shall be cut off from the congregation of Israel, both
among the strangers of the land, and those born in the land. <sup>20</sup>Ye shall eat nothing
leavened; but in every habitation of yours ye shall eat unleavened bread.” ' 
<sup>21</sup>And Moses called all the elders of Israel and said unto them, 'When ye go
away, take you a sheep according to your families, and sacrifice the Passover. <sup>22</sup>And ye
shall take a bunch of hyssop, and when ye have dipped it in some of the blood that is
by the door, ye shall touch the lintel and put it upon both side­posts with the blood,
even of the blood which is by the door; but ye shall not each one go out at the door of
his house until the morning. <sup>23</sup>And the LORD will pass through to smite the Egyptians,
and shall see the blood upon the lintel, and on both side­posts; and the LORD will pass
by the door, and will not suffer the destroyer to come into unto your houses to smite
you. <sup>24</sup>And ye shall observe this thing for an ordinance to thee and to thy sons for ever.
<sup>25</sup>And if ye shall come into the land which the LORD will give you according as He hath
spoken, ye shall keep this service. <sup>26</sup>And it shall come to pass, if your sons shall say
unto you, “What is this service?” <sup>27</sup>then ye shall say unto them, “This Passover is a
sacrifice unto the LORD as He defended the houses of the children of Israel in Egypt,
when He smote the Egyptians, but delivered our houses”.' And the people bowed and
worshipped. <sup>28</sup>And  the  children  of  Israel  went  away,  and  did  as  the  LORD  had
commanded Moses and Aaron, so did they. 
<sup>29</sup>And it came to pass, that at midnight the LORD smote all the firstborn in the
land of Egypt, from the firstborn of Pharaoh that sitteth upon his throne unto the
firstborn of the captive maid that is in the dungeon, even to the firstborn of all cattle.
<sup>30</sup>And Pharaoh rose up in the night, and his servants, and all the Egyptians; and there
was a great cry in all the land of Egypt, for there was not a house wherein there was not
one dead. <sup>31</sup>And Pharaoh called Moses and Aaron by night, and said unto them, 'Rise
up, and get you forth from among my people, both ye and the children of Israel. Go;
serve the LORD your God, even as ye say. <sup>32</sup>Also take with ye your sheep and your
oxen; bless me also, I pray you.' <sup>33</sup>And the Egyptians constrained the people, that they
might cast them out of the land in haste, for they said, 'We shall all die'. <sup>34</sup>And the
people took their dough before it was leavened, their kneaded mixture being bound up
in their clothes upon their shoulders. <sup>35</sup>And the children of Israel did according as
Moses commanded them; and they asked of the Egyptians things of silver and of gold,
and raiment. <sup>36</sup>And the LORD gave his people favour in the sight of the Egyptians, and
they gave unto them. And they spoiled the Egyptians. 
<sup>37</sup>And the children of Israel departed from Rameses to Succoth, to the number of
six hundred thousand on foot, even men, beside the baggage. <sup>38</sup>And a great mixed
multitude went with them, and sheep, and oxen, and very much cattle. <sup>39</sup>And they
baked the dough which they brought forth out of Egypt, unleavened bread baked in
ashes, for it was not leavened; because the Egyptians thrust them out, and they could
not remain, neither had they prepared for themselves provision for the journey. <sup>40</sup>Now
the sojourning of the children of Israel, which they dwelt in the land of Egypt and in the
land of Canaan, was four hundred and thirty years. <sup>41</sup>And it came to pass, that after
the four hundred and thirty years, all the hosts of the LORD came out from the land of
Egypt by night. <sup>42</sup>It is a vigil unto the LORD, that He should bring them out from the
land of Egypt. That selfsame night is a vigil unto the LORD, that it should be to all the
children of Israel unto their generations. 
<sup>43</sup>And the LORD said unto Moses and Aaron, 'This is the law of the Passover.
There shall no stranger eat thereof. <sup>44</sup>And every bondservant or servant that is bought
for money, him shalt thou circumcise, and then shall he eat thereof. <sup>45</sup>A sojourner or
hired servant shall not eat thereof. <sup>46</sup>In one house shall it be eaten, and ye shall not
carry forth aught of the flesh abroad out of the house, neither shall ye break a bone<sup>65</sup>thereof. <sup>47</sup>All the congregation of the children of Israel shall keep it. <sup>48</sup>And if any
stranger shall come unto you to keep the Passover of the LORD, thou shalt circumcise
every male of him. Then shall he be like him that is home­born of the land; no
uncircumcised person shall eat thereof. <sup>49</sup>One law shall there be to him that is home­
born, and unto the stranger that cometh among you.' <sup>50</sup>And the children of Israel did as
the LORD commanded Moses and Aaron for them; so did they. <sup>51</sup>And it came to pass
the selfsame day, that the LORD did bring the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt
with their host.