---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 13
chapter_order_number: 13
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>13</sup>
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <sup>2</sup>'Sanctify unto Me every firstborn, the
first begotten that openeth every womb among the children of Israel, both of man and of
beast; it is Mine'. 
<sup>3</sup>And Moses said unto the people, 'Remember this day, in which ye came out of
the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage; for by a strong hand the LORD brought
you out from thence, and there shall no leaven be eaten. <sup>4</sup>For on this day go ye out in
the month of the new corn. <sup>5</sup>And it shall be whensoever the LORD thy God shall bring
thee into the land of the Canaanites, and the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the
Hivites, and the Jebusites, and the Gergashites and the Perizzites, which He sware unto
thy fathers to give thee, a land flowing with milk and honey, that thou shalt perform
this service in this month. <sup>6</sup>Six days ye shall eat unleavened bread, and on the seventh
day there shall be a feast to the LORD. <sup>7</sup>Unleavened bread shall ye eat seven days; and
there shall naught leavened be seen with thee, neither shall thou have leaven in all thy
borders. <sup>8</sup>And thou shalt tell thy son in that day, saying, “Therefore did the LORD God
thus do unto me, when I went forth out of Egypt”. <sup>9</sup>And it shall be for a sign unto thee
upon thine hand, and for a memorial before thine eyes, that the LORD's law may be in
thy mouth; for with a strong hand hath the LORD God brought thee out of Egypt. <sup>10</sup>And
keep ye this ordinance according to the times of the seasons from days to days. <sup>11</sup>And it
shall be when the LORD thy God shall bring thee into the land of the Canaanites, as He
sware unto thy fathers, and shall give it thee, <sup>12</sup>that thou shalt set apart every thing
that openeth the matrix, the males to the LORD, every one that openeth the matrix out
of the herds or among thy cattle, as many as thou shalt have; the males shalt thou
sanctify unto the LORD. <sup>13</sup>Every thing that openeth the matrix of an ass thou shalt
change for a sheep, and if thou wilt not change it, thou shalt redeem it. Every firstborn
of man of thy sons shalt thou redeem. <sup>14</sup>And if thy son ask thee in time to come,
saying, “What is this?” then thou shalt say unto him, “With a strong hand the LORD
brought us out of Egypt, from the house of bondage. <sup>15</sup>And when Pharaoh hardened his
heart, that he might not send us away , He slew every firstborn in the land of Egypt, both
the firstborn of man, and the firstborn of beast. Therefore, I sacrifice every offspring
that openeth the matrix, the males to the LORD, and every firstborn of my sons will I
redeem. <sup>16</sup>And it shall be for a token upon thine hand, and immovable before thine eyes;
for thus hath said the LORD Almighty; “Every firstborn of thy sons will ye give Me”; for
with a strong hand the LORD brought thee forth out of Egypt.” ' 
<sup>17</sup>And when Pharaoh had sent the people away, God led them not through the
way of the land of the Philistines, because it was near; for God said, 'Lest at any time
the people repent when they see war, and they return to Egypt'. <sup>18</sup>And God led the
people about by the way unto the wilderness to the Red Sea; and in the fifth generation
the children of Israel went up out of the land of Egypt. <sup>19</sup>And Moses took the bones of
Joseph with him; for he had straitly sworn the children of Israel, saying, 'God will surely
visit you; and ye shall bring my bones thence with you'. <sup>20</sup>And the children of Israel
took  their  journey  from  Succoth,  and  encamped  in  Etham,  in  the  edge  of  the<sup>66</sup>wilderness. <sup>21</sup>And God led them in the day by a pillar of cloud, to shew them the way,
and in the night by a pillar of fire. <sup>22</sup>And the pillar of cloud departed not by day, neither
the pillar of fire by night, from before all the people.