---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 14
chapter_order_number: 14
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>14</sup>
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <sup>2</sup>'Speak unto the children of Israel,
and let them turn and encamp over against the village between Migdol and the sea over
against Baal­zephon; before them shalt thou encamp by the sea. <sup>3</sup>And Pharaoh will say
to his people, “As for these children of Israel, they wander in the land, for the wilderness
hath shut them in”. <sup>4</sup>Now will I harden Pharaoh's heart, and he shall pursue after
them, and I will be glorified in Pharaoh and in all his host, and all the Egyptians shall
know that I am the LORD.' And they did so. <sup>5</sup>And it was told the king of Egypt that the
people fled; and the heart of Pharaoh and of his servants was turned against the people,
and they said, 'What is this that we have done, in that we have sent the children of
Israel away, that they should not serve us?'  <sup>6</sup>So Pharaoh yoked his chariots, and led
away his people with him, <sup>7</sup>and he took six hundred chosen chariots and all the horse
of the Egyptians, and captains over all of them. <sup>8</sup>And the LORD hardened the heart of
Pharaoh king of Egypt, and he pursued after the children of Israel; and the children of
Israel went out with an high hand. <sup>9</sup>And the Egyptians pursued after them, and found
them  encamped  by  the  sea;  and  all  the  horse  and  chariots  of  Pharaoh,  and  his
horsemen, and his host, were before the village, over against Baal­zephon. <sup>10</sup>And
Pharaoh drew nigh, and the children of Israel lifted up their eyes and beheld, and the
Egyptians encamped behind them, and they were sore afraid. And the children of Israel
cried out unto the LORD, <sup>11</sup>and they said unto Moses, 'Because there were no graves in
Egypt, hast thou brought us forth to slay us in the wilderness? What is this that thou
hast done unto us in bringing us forth out of Egypt? <sup>12</sup>Is not this the word we did tell
thee in Egypt, saying, 'Let us alone that we may serve the Egyptians? For it had been
better for us to serve the Egyptians than to die in this wilderness.'  <sup>13</sup>And Moses said
unto the people, 'Be of good courage, stand still, and see the salvation which is of the
LORD, which he will work for us this day; for as ye have seen the Egyptians today, ye
shall see them again no more for ever. <sup>14</sup>The LORD shall fight for you, and ye shall hold
your peace.' 
<sup>15</sup>And the LORD said unto Moses, 'Wherefore criest thou unto Me? Speak unto
the children of Israel, and let them break camp. <sup>16</sup>And lift thou up thy rod, and stretch
out thine hand over the sea, and divide it, and let the children of Israel go on dry
ground into the midst of the sea. <sup>17</sup>And behold, I will harden the heart of Pharaoh, and
of all the Egyptians, and they shall go in after them. And I will be glorified upon
Pharaoh and upon all his host, and upon his chariots, and upon his horses. <sup>18</sup>And all
the Egyptians shall know that I am the LORD, when I am glorified upon Pharaoh and
upon his chariots, and upon his horses.'  <sup>19</sup>And the angel of the LORD, which went
before the camp of the children of Israel, removed and went behind them; and the pillar
of the cloud also removed from before them, and stood behind them. <sup>20</sup>And it came
between the camp of the Egyptians and the camp of Israel, and stood, and there was
darkness and blackness. And the night passed, and they came not near to one another
during the whole night. <sup>21</sup>And Moses stretched out his hand over the sea, and the
LORD carried back the sea with a strong south wind all the night, and made the sea dry
land, and the water was divided. <sup>22</sup>And the children of Israel went into the midst of the
sea upon the dry land, and the water thereof was a wall on the right hand and on the
left. <sup>23</sup>And the Egyptians pursued, and went in after them into the midst of the sea,
even all Pharaoh's horses, his chariots, and his horsemen. <sup>24</sup>And it came to pass, that
in the morning watch the LORD looked upon the camp of the Egyptians through the<sup>67</sup>pillar of fire and of cloud, and troubled the camp of the Egyptians, <sup>25</sup>and bound the
axles of their chariots together, and caused them to go heavily. And the Egyptians said,
'Let  us  flee  from  the  face  of  Israel,  for  the  LORD  fighteth  for  them  against  the
Egyptians'. <sup>26</sup>And the LORD said unto Moses, 'Stretch out thy hand over the sea, and
let the water return again to the place thereof, and let it cover the Egyptians, both the
chariots and the riders'. <sup>27</sup>And Moses stretched forth his hand over the sea, and the
water returned to the place thereof toward day, and the Egyptians fled under the water;
and the LORD shook off the Egyptians in the midst of the sea. <sup>28</sup>And the water
returned, and covered the chariots, and the horsemen, and all the hosts of Pharaoh
that entered into the sea after them; and there was left not so much as one of them.
<sup>29</sup>But the children of Israel went across dry land in the midst of the sea, and the water
was a wall unto them on the right hand, and a wall on the left. <sup>30</sup>And the LORD
delivered Israel that day out of the hand of the Egyptians; and Israel saw the Egyptians
dead along the sea shore. <sup>31</sup>And Israel saw the mighty hand, the things which the
LORD did upon the Egyptians; and the people feared the LORD, and believed the LORD,
and His servant Moses.