---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 15
chapter_order_number: 15
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>15</sup>
Then sang Moses and the children of Israel this song unto the LORD, and spake,
saying, 'Let us sing unto the LORD, for gloriously is He glorified; horse and rider hath
He thrown into the sea. <sup>2</sup>He was unto me a helper and protector for salvation; this is
my God, and I will glorify Him; my father's God, and I will exalt Him. <sup>3</sup>The LORD that
bringeth wars to naught; LORD is His name. <sup>4</sup>Pharaoh's chariots and his host hath He
cast into the sea; the chosen mounted captains were swallowed up in the Red Sea. <sup>5</sup>He
covered them with the sea; they sank into the deep as a stone. <sup>6</sup>Thy right hand, O
LORD, is become glorified in power; Thy right hand, O LORD, hath dashed in pieces the
enemies. <sup>7</sup>And in the abundance of Thy glory thou hast broken the adversaries to
pieces. Thou sentest forth Thy wrath; it devoured them as stubble. <sup>8</sup>And at the breath
of thine anger the waters parted asunder. The waters were gathered together as a wall;
the waves were congealed in the midst of the sea. <sup>9</sup>The enemy said, “I will pursue; I will
overtake; I will divide the spoils; I will satisfy my soul; I will destroy with my sword; my
hand shall have dominion”. <sup>10</sup>Thou sentest forth Thy wind; the sea covered them; they
sank as lead in the mighty water. <sup>11</sup>Who is like unto Thee, O LORD, among the gods?
Who is like Thee, glorified in holiness, marvellous in glories, doing wonders?  <sup>12</sup>Thou
stretchedst out Thy right hand, the earth swallowed them. <sup>13</sup>Thou in thy righteousness
hast guided this Thy people which Thou hast redeemed; Thou hast called them by Thy
strength into Thy holy resting place. <sup>14</sup>The nations did hear, and were angry; pangs
took hold of them that dwell among the Philistines. <sup>15</sup>Then the rulers of Edom did
hasten,  the  chiefs  of  the  Moabites  also;  trembling  took  hold  upon  them;  all  the
inhabitants of Canaan melted away. <sup>16</sup>Let trembling and fear fall upon them; by the
greatness of Thine arm let them become as stone, till Thy people pass over, O LORD, till
the people pass over, which Thou hast purchased. <sup>17</sup>Bring them in, and plant them in
the mountain of Thine inheritance; even in Thy prepared habitation, which Thou, O
LORD, hast prepared, even the sanctuary, O LORD, which Thy hands have made ready.
<sup>18</sup>The LORD reigneth for ever and ever. <sup>19</sup>For the horse of Pharaoh went in with the
chariots and with the horsemen into the sea, and the LORD brought again the waters of
the sea upon them; but the children of Israel went on dry land in the midst of the sea.' 
<sup>20</sup>And, Miriam the prophetess, the sister of Aaron, took a timbrel in her hand,
and all the women went out after her with timbrels and with dances. <sup>21</sup>And Miriam led
them, saying, 'Let us sing unto the LORD, for gloriously is He glorified; horse and rider
hath He thrown into the sea'. <sup>6822</sup>So Moses brought up the children of Israel from the Red Sea, and brought
them into the wilderness of Sur; and they went three days in the wilderness, and found
no water to drink. <sup>23</sup>And they came to Marah, and could not drink of the water of
Marah, for it was bitter; therefore called he the name of that place Bitterness. <sup>24</sup>And the
people murmured against Moses, saying, 'What shall we drink?' <sup>25</sup>And Moses cried unto
the LORD, and the LORD shewed him wood, and he cast it into the water, and the
water was made sweet. There He established to him ordinances and judgments, and
there He proved him. <sup>26</sup>And He said, 'If thou wilt indeed hearken to the voice of the
LORD thy God, and wilt do things that are pleasing before him, and wilt give ear to his
commandments, and keep all his statutes, I will put no disease upon thee, which I have
brought upon the Egyptians; for I am the LORD that healeth thee'. 
<sup>27</sup>And they came to Elim, and there were there twelve fountains of water, and
threescore and ten date palm trees, and they encamped there by the waters.