---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 16
chapter_order_number: 16
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>16</sup>
And they took their journey from Elim, and all the congregation of the children
of Israel came unto the wilderness of Sin, which is between Elim and Sinai. And on the
fifteenth day, in the second month after their departing out of the land of Egypt, <sup>2</sup>the
whole congregation of the children of Israel murmured against Moses and Aaron. <sup>3</sup>And
the children of Israel said unto them, 'Would that we had died smitten by the LORD in
the land of Egypt, when we sat by the flesh­pots, and did eat bread to the full; for ye
have brought us forth into this wilderness to kill this whole assembly with hunger'.
<sup>4</sup>And the LORD said unto Moses, 'Behold, I will rain bread from heaven upon you; and
the people shall go out and gather their daily portion for the day, that I may prove them,
whether they will walk in my law or no. <sup>5</sup>And it shall come to pass, that on the sixth
day they shall prepare whatsoever they have brought in, and it shall be double of that
which they have gathered for the day daily.'  <sup>6</sup>And Moses and Aaron said unto all the
congregation of the children of Israel, 'At even ye shall know that the LORD hath
brought you out from the land of Egypt, <sup>7</sup>and in the morning ye shall see the glory of
the LORD, for that He heareth thy murmuring against God. And what are we that ye
continue to murmur against us?' <sup>8</sup>And Moses said, ' This shall be , when the LORD shall
give you in the evening flesh to eat, and in the morning bread to the full; for that the
LORD hath heard your murmuring, which ye murmur against us; and what are we? for
your murmuring is not against us, but against God'. <sup>9</sup>And Moses spake unto Aaron,
'Say unto all the congregation of the children of Israel, “Come near before God, for He
hath heard your murmuring.” ' <sup>10</sup>And when Aaron spake unto the whole congregation
of the children of Israel, and they turned toward the wilderness, then the glory of the
LORD appeared in a cloud. <sup>11</sup>And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <sup>12</sup>'I have heard
the murmuring of the children of Israel; speak unto them, saying, “Toward even ye shall
eat flesh, and in the morning ye shall be filled with bread; and ye shall know that I am
the LORD your God.” ' <sup>13</sup>And it was even, and quails came up and covered the camp.
<sup>14</sup>In the morning it came to pass, as the dew lifted round about the camp, that behold,
upon the face of the wilderness there was a small thing like coriander seed, white as the
hoar frost on the ground. <sup>15</sup>And when the children of Israel saw it, they said, 'What is
this?' for they knew not what it was. And Moses said unto them, <sup>16</sup>'This is the bread
which the LORD hath given you to eat. This is that which the LORD hath commanded;
gather of it each man for his family, a homer for each person, according to the number
of your souls; gather of it each of you with them that lodge with him.'  <sup>17</sup>And the
children of Israel did so, and gathered some much, and some less. <sup>18</sup>And having meted
out the homer full, he that gathered much had nothing over, and he that gathered less
had no lack; he gathered each man according to the need of them that were in his own<sup>69</sup>house. <sup>19</sup>And Moses said unto them, 'Let no man leave of it till the morning'. <sup>20</sup>But they
hearkened not unto Moses; but some of them left of it until morning, and it bred worms
and stank; and Moses was vexed with them. <sup>21</sup>And they gathered it every morning, each
man what he had need of; and when the sun waxed hot, it melted. <sup>22</sup>And it came to
pass, that on the sixth day they gathered double what was needed, two homers for each
man; and all the rulers of the congregations came and told Moses. <sup>23</sup>And Moses said
unto them, 'Is not this the word which the LORD spake? Tomorrow is the Sabbath, a
holy rest unto the LORD; bake that which ye will bake, and seethe that ye will seethe,
and all that which remaineth over leave ye to be laid up until the morning.' <sup>24</sup>And they
left of it till the morning, as Moses bade them; and it did not stink, neither was there
any worm therein. <sup>25</sup>And Moses said, 'Eat today, for today is a Sabbath unto the LORD;
it shall not be found in the field. <sup>26</sup>Six days ye shall gather it, but the seventh day is a
Sabbath unto the LORD; there shall be none in it.'  <sup>27</sup>And it came to pass, that there
went out some of the people on the seventh day for to gather, and they found none.
<sup>28</sup>And the LORD said unto Moses, 'How long will ye be unwilling to hearken unto My
commandments and My laws? <sup>29</sup>See, for that the LORD hath given you this day as the
Sabbath, therefore hath He given you on the sixth day the bread of two days. Ye shall
sit, each of you in your houses; let no man go out of his place on the seventh day.'
<sup>30</sup>And the people kept Sabbath on the seventh day. <sup>31</sup>And the children of Israel called
the name thereof manna; and it was white like coriander seed, and the taste of it was
like a wafer with honey. <sup>32</sup>And Moses said, 'This is the thing which the LORD hath
commanded; “Fill a homer with manna to be laid up for your generations, that they may
see the bread which ye ate in the wilderness when the LORD brought you forth from the
land of Egypt.” ' <sup>33</sup>And Moses said unto Aaron, 'Take a golden pot and put a homer full
of manna therein, and thou shalt lay it up before the LORD, to be kept for your
generations'; <sup>34</sup>as  the  LORD  commanded  Moses. And  Aaron  laid  it  up  before  the
tabernacle of  testimony to be kept. <sup>35</sup>And the children of Israel did eat manna forty
years; until they came to the land they did eat the manna, until they came unto the
region of Phoenicia. <sup>36</sup>Now the homer was the tenth part of three measures.