---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 17
chapter_order_number: 17
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>17</sup>
And all the congregation of the children of Israel journeyed from the wilderness
of Sin, according to their encampments, by the word of the LORD, and pitched in
Rephidin; and there was no water for the people to drink. <sup>2</sup>And the people did chide
with Moses, saying, 'Give us water that we may drink'. And Moses said unto them,
'Why chide ye with me, and wherefore do ye tempt the LORD? <sup>3</sup>And the people thirsted
there for water, and there the people murmured against Moses and said, 'Wherefore is
this? hast thou brought us up out of Egypt to kill us and our children and our cattle
with thirst?'  <sup>4</sup>And Moses cried unto the LORD, saying, 'What shall I do unto this
people? but a little while, they will stone me'. <sup>5</sup>And the LORD said unto Moses, 'Go on
before this people, and take with thee of the elders of Israel; and take in thine hand thy
rod, wherewith thou smotest the river, and thou shall go. <sup>6</sup>I stand here before thou
come upon the rock in Horeb, and thou shalt smite the rock, and there shall come
water out of it, and the people shall drink.'  And Moses did so in the sight of the
children of Israel. <sup>7</sup>And he called the name of the place Temptation and Chiding,
because of the chiding of the people of Israel, and because they tempted the LORD,
saying, 'Is the LORD among us or not?' 
<sup>8</sup>Then came Amalek and fought with Israel in Rephidin. <sup>9</sup>And Moses said unto
Joshua, 'Choose thee out capable men, and go out, and set the army in array against
Amalek tomorrow. And behold, I will stand on the top of the hill, and the rod of God
shall be in mine hand.' <sup>10</sup>So Joshua did as Moses had said to him, and he went out and<sup>70</sup>set the army in array against Amalek; and Moses, Aaron and Hur went up to the top of
the hill. <sup>11</sup>And it came to pass when Moses lifted up his hands, that Israel prevailed;
and when he let down his hands, Amalek prevailed. <sup>12</sup>But Moses' hands were heavy;
and they took a stone, and put it under him, and he sat thereon; and Aaron and Hur
stayed up his hands, the one on the one side, and the other on the other side, and
Moses' hands were stayed until the going down of the sun. <sup>13</sup>And Joshua routed
Amalek and all his people with the edge of the sword. <sup>14</sup>Then said the LORD unto
Moses, 'Write this for a memorial in a book, and give it in the ears of Joshua; for I will
utterly put out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven'. <sup>15</sup>And Moses builded
an altar unto the LORD, and called the name of it, The LORD is my Refuge. <sup>16</sup>Because
with a secret hand the LORD hath war with Amalek from generation to generation.