---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 18
chapter_order_number: 18
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>18</sup>
Now Jethro, the priest of Midian, Moses' father­in­law, heard of all that God had
done for Israel His people, for the LORD had brought Israel out of Egypt. <sup>2</sup>And Jethro,
Moses' father­in­law, took Zipporah, Moses' wife, after that she had been sent away,
<sup>3</sup>and her two sons. The name of the one was Gershom, saying, 'I have been a sojourner
in a strange land'; <sup>4</sup>and the name of the second was Eliezer, saying, 'For the God of my
father is mine help, and he hath delivered me from the hand of Pharaoh'. <sup>5</sup>And Jethro,
Moses' father­in­law, and his sons, and his wife, went forth unto Moses into the
wilderness, where he encamped at the mount of God. <sup>6</sup>And it was told Moses, saying,
'Behold, thy father­in­law Jethro is come unto thee, and thy wife, and thy two sons with
him'. <sup>7</sup>And Moses went out to meet his father­in­law and did obeisance unto him, and
kissed him; and they greeted each another, and he brought him into the tent. <sup>8</sup>And
Moses told his father­in­law all that the LORD had done unto Pharaoh and to the
Egyptians for Israel's sake, and all the travail that had come upon them by the way,
and how that the LORD delivered them out of the hand of Pharaoh, and out of hand of
the Egyptians. <sup>9</sup>And Jethro was astonished for all the goodness which the LORD had
done to them, forasmuch as He delivered them out of the hands of the Egyptians and
out of the hand of Pharaoh. <sup>10</sup>And Jethro said, 'Blessed be the LORD, for He hath
delivered them out of the hands of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of Pharaoh.
<sup>11</sup>Now I know that the LORD is great above all gods, because of this wherein they did
attack  them.'  <sup>12</sup>And  Jethro,  Moses'  father­in­law,  took  whole  burnt­offerings  and
sacrifices to God; for Aaron came, and all the elders of Israel, to eat bread with Moses'
father­in­law before God. 
<sup>13</sup>And it came to pass after the morrow, that Moses sat to judge the people.
Now all the people stood by Moses from the morning unto the evening. <sup>14</sup>And Jethro
saw all that he did to the people, and saith, 'What is this thing that thou doest to the
people? Why sittest thou thyself alone, and all the people stand by thee from morning
unto even?' <sup>15</sup>And Moses saith unto his father­in­law, 'Because the people come unto
me to seek judgment of God. <sup>16</sup>For whensoever there is a dispute among them, and they
come unto me, I do give judgment upon each, and teach them the statutes of God and
His law.' <sup>17</sup>Then Moses' father­in­law said unto him, 'Thou doest not this thing rightly;
<sup>18</sup>thou wilt wear away with weariness intolerable, both thou, and all this people that is
with thee. This thing is too heavy for thee, and thou wilt not be able to endure it alone.
<sup>19</sup>Hearken now unto me, and I will give thee counsel, and God shall be with thee; be
thou for the people in the things pertaining to God, and thou shalt bring their words
unto God. <sup>20</sup>And thou shalt testify unto them the ordinances of God and His law, and
shalt shew them the ways wherein they shall walk, and the works that they shall do.
<sup>21</sup>And do thou seek for thyself out of all the people able men, such as fear God,
righteous  men  that  hate  pride,  and  thou  shall  place  over  the  people  captains  of<sup>71</sup>thousands and captains of hundreds, captains of fifties, and captains of tens. <sup>22</sup>And
they shall judge the people at all seasons; and the matter that is too burdensome shall
they shall bring unto thee, but the smaller matters they shall judge; so shall they relieve
thee, and help thee. <sup>23</sup>If thou shalt do this thing, God shall strengthen thee, and thou
shalt be able to stand, and all the people shall go to their own place in peace.' <sup>24</sup>And
Moses hearkened to the voice of his father­in­law, and did whatsoever he said unto him.
<sup>25</sup>And Moses chose able men out of all Israel, and made them captains of thousands,
and captains of hundreds, and captains of fifties, and captains of tens over them. <sup>26</sup>And
they judged the people at every season, and every burdensome matter they brought
unto Moses, but every light matter they judged themselves. <sup>27</sup>Then Moses sent his
father­in­law away, and he went his way into his own land.