---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 19
chapter_order_number: 19
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>19</sup>
And in the third month, when the children of Israel were gone forth out of the
land of Egypt, the same day came they into the wilderness of Sinai. <sup>2</sup>And they departed
from Rephidin, and came to the wilderness of Sinai, and there Israel camped before the
mount. <sup>3</sup>And Moses went up unto the mount of God, and God called unto him out of
the mountain, saying, 'Thus shall ye say to the house of Jacob, and thou shalt tell them
to the children of Israel; <sup>4</sup>“Ye have seen what I did unto the Egyptians, and I took you
up as on eagles' wings, and brought you nigh unto Myself. <sup>5</sup>And now, if ye will hearken
to My voice indeed, and keep My covenant, then ye shall be a peculiar people unto Me
above all nations; for all the earth is Mine. <sup>6</sup>And ye shall be unto Me a royal priesthood,
and a holy nation.” These words shalt thou speak unto the children of Israel.'  <sup>7</sup>And
Moses came and called for the elders of the people, and laid before them all these words
which God appointed him. <sup>8</sup>And all the people answered with one voice, and said, 'All
that God hath spoken we will do, and hearken unto'. And Moses carried the words of
the people unto the LORD. <sup>9</sup>And the LORD said unto Moses, 'Lo, I am come unto thee
in a pillar of cloud, that the people may hear when I speak with thee, and believe thee
for ever'. And Moses told the words of the people unto the LORD. <sup>10</sup>And the LORD said
unto Moses, 'When thou goest down, do thou solemnly testify unto the people, and
sanctify them today and tomorrow, and let them wash their clothes, <sup>11</sup>and let them be
ready against the third day; for the third day the LORD will come down in the sight of
all the people upon mount Sinai. <sup>12</sup>And thou shalt set bounds unto the people round
about, saying, “Take heed to yourselves, that ye go not up into the mount, or touch any
part of it; every one that toucheth the mount shall surely die. <sup>13</sup>There shall not a hand
touch it, for he shall be stoned with stones, or shot through with a dart, whether it be
beast or man, it shall not live. When the voices and trumpets and cloud depart from off
the mount they shall come up to the mount.” ' <sup>14</sup>And Moses went down from the mount
unto the people, and sanctified them; and they washed their clothes. <sup>15</sup>And he said
unto the people, 'Be ready; for three days come not near a woman'. <sup>16</sup>And it came to
pass on the third day, as it was toward the dawning of the day, that there were voices
and lightnings, and a dark cloud upon mount Sinai. The voice of the trumpet sounded
loud, and all the people that were in the camp trembled. <sup>17</sup>And Moses led forth the
people out of the camp to meet with God, and they stood by under the mount. <sup>18</sup>Now
the mount Sinai was altogether on a smoke, because the LORD descended upon it in
fire; and the smoke ascended as the smoke of a furnace, and the people were exceeding
astonished. <sup>19</sup>And the sounds of the trumpet waxed louder and louder. Moses spake,
and God answered him by a voice. <sup>20</sup>And the LORD came down upon mount Sinai, on
the top of the mount, and the LORD called Moses up to the top of the mount, and
Moses went up. <sup>21</sup>And God spake unto Moses, saying, 'Go down, and solemnly charge
the people, lest at any time they come near to God to observe , and a multitude of them
fall. <sup>22</sup>And let the priests, which come near to the LORD God, sanctify themselves, lest
the LORD do away with some of them.' <sup>23</sup>And Moses said unto God, 'The people will not<sup>72</sup>be able to ascend to the mount Sinai, for Thou hast solemnly testified unto us, saying,
'Set a bound to the mount, and sanctify it.” ' <sup>24</sup>And the LORD said unto him, 'Go, get
thee down, and come up, thou and Aaron with thee; but let not the priests and the
people use force to come up unto God, lest the LORD destroy some of them'. <sup>25</sup>And
Moses went down unto the people, and spake unto them.