---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 20
chapter_order_number: 20
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>20</sup>
And the LORD spake all these words, saying, <sup>2</sup>'I am the LORD thy God, which
have brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. <sup>3</sup>Thou shalt
have no other gods beside Me. <sup>4</sup>Thou shalt not make unto thee a graven thing, or
likeness of anything, whatsoever things are in the heaven above, and whatsoever is in
the earth beneath, and whatsoever is in the waters under the earth. <sup>5</sup>Thou shalt not
bow down thyself to them, nor art thou to serve them; for I am the LORD thy God, a
jealous God, recompensing the sins of the fathers upon children unto the third and
fourth generation of them that hate Me, <sup>6</sup>and doing mercy unto thousands unto them
that love Me, and keep My commandments. <sup>7</sup>Thou shalt not take the name of the LORD
thy God in vain, for the LORD will not acquit him that taketh His name in vain.
<sup>8</sup>Remember the day of the Sabbath, to hallow it. <sup>9</sup>Six days shalt thou labour, and do all
thy work; <sup>10</sup>but the seventh day is the Sabbath of the LORD thy God. In it thou shalt
not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy
maidservant, nor thine ox, nor thine ass, nor the stranger that dwelleth with thee. <sup>11</sup>For
in six days the LORD made the heaven and earth, the sea and all things that in them
are, and rested the seventh day; wherefore the LORD blessed the seventh day, and
hallowed it. <sup>12</sup>Honour thy father and mother, that it may be well with thee, and that
thou mayest live long upon the good land which the LORD thy God giveth thee. <sup>13</sup>Thou
shalt not commit adultery. <sup>14</sup>Thou shalt not steal. <sup>15</sup>Thou shalt not murder. <sup>16</sup>Thou
shalt not testify falsely against thy neighbour with false witness. <sup>17</sup>Thou shalt not covet
thy neighbour's wife; thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's house, nor his field, nor his
manservant, nor his maidservant, nor his ox, nor his draught animal, nor any of his
cattle, nor all whatsoever pertaineth unto thy neighbour.' 
<sup>18</sup>And all the people saw the voice, and the lightnings, and the noise of the
trumpet, and the mountain smoking; and all the people feared, and stood afar off.
<sup>19</sup>And they said unto Moses, 'Speak thou with us; but let not God speak with us, lest we
die'. <sup>20</sup>And Moses saith unto them, 'Be of good courage, for God is come to you to prove
you, that His fear may be among you, that ye sin not'. <sup>21</sup>Now the people stood afar off,
but Moses went into the darkness where God was. <sup>22</sup>And the LORD said unto Moses,
'Thus thou shalt say unto the house of Jacob, and tell it unto the children of Israel; “Ye
have seen that I have talked with you from heaven. <sup>23</sup>Ye shall not make unto you gods
of silver, neither shall ye make unto you gods of gold. <sup>24</sup>An altar of earth ye shall make
unto Me, and shall sacrifice thereon your whole burnt­offerings, and your deliverance
offerings, your sheep, and your calves in all places where I shall pronounce My name.
And I will come unto thee, and I will bless thee. <sup>25</sup>But if thou make unto Me an altar of
stones, thou shalt not build it of hewn stones; for thou hast lifted up thy tool upon
them, and they are polluted. <sup>26</sup>Thou shalt not go up by steps unto mine altar, that thou
mayest not discover thy nakedness thereon.