---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 21
chapter_order_number: 21
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---
CHAPTER <sup>21</sup>
 'And these are the ordinances which thou shalt set before them. <sup>2</sup>If thou buy
a Hebrew servant, six years he shall serve thee, but in the seventh year he shall go out<sup>73</sup>free for nothing. <sup>3</sup>If he came in by himself, he shall also go out by himself; and if his
wife went in together with him, his wife also shall go out. <sup>4</sup>Moreover, if his master have
given him a wife, and she have born him sons or daughters; the wife and the children
shall be his master's, but he shall go out alone. <sup>5</sup>And if the servant answer and say, “I
have loved my master, my wife, and my children, I go not away free”; <sup>6</sup>his master shall
bring him unto the judgment seat of God; then shall he also bring him to the door, unto
the door post, and his master shall bare his ear through with an awl, and he shall serve
him for ever. <sup>7</sup>Now if any one sell his daughter to be a house­servant, she shall not go
out as maidservants go away. <sup>8</sup>If she be not pleasing unto her master, after she hath
betrothed herself to himself, he shall let her go free; but to sell her unto a strange
nation he is not at liberty; seeing he hath trifled with her. <sup>9</sup>And if he have betrothed her
unto his son, he shall do unto her according to the right of daughters. <sup>10</sup>And if he take
him another wife, of her necessaries, and her raiment, and her duty of marriage, shall
he not deprive her. <sup>11</sup>But if he will not do these three unto her, then shall she go out
free without money. 
<sup>12</sup>'Now if any man smiteth another, and he die, let him be surely put to death.
<sup>13</sup>But as for him that did it not wittingly, but God delivered him into his hands, then I
will give thee a place whither the slayer may flee. <sup>14</sup>And if any man lie in wait for his
neighbour, to slay him with guile, and he go for refuge, thou shalt take him from mine
altar, to put him to death. <sup>15</sup>Whosoever smiteth his father, or his mother, let him be
surely put to death. <sup>16</sup>Whosoever revileth his father, or his mother, he shall surely die.
<sup>17</sup>Whosoever shall steal one of the children of Israel, and prevail over him, and sell him,
and be found with him, let him surely die. <sup>18</sup>Now if two men revile each other, and the
one smite the other with a stone, or with his fist, and he die not, but be laid upon his
bed; <sup>19</sup>if the man rise again, and walk abroad upon his staff, then shall he that smote
him be quit; only he shall pay for the loss of his time, and for his healing. <sup>20</sup>And if a
man smite his servant, or his maid with a rod, and he die under his hand, he shall
surely be punished. <sup>21</sup>Notwithstanding, if he continue to live a day or two, let not there
be punishment, for he is his money. <sup>22</sup>And if two men strive, and smite a woman with
child, and her child be born imperfect, he shall be forced to pay a penalty. According as
the woman's husband may lay upon him, he shall pay with a valuation. <sup>23</sup>But if it be
perfect, he shall give life for life, <sup>24</sup>eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for
foot, <sup>25</sup>burning for burning, wound for wound, stripe for stripe. <sup>26</sup>And if a man smite the
eye of his servant, or the eye of his maid, and put it out, he shall let them go free for
their eye's sake. <sup>27</sup>And if he smite out his manservant's tooth, or his maidservant's
tooth, he shall send them away free for their tooth's sake.
<sup>28</sup>“And if a bull gore a man or a woman, and they die, the bull shall be stoned
with stones, and its flesh shall not be eaten; but the owner of the bull shall be quit.
<sup>29</sup>But if the bull were wont to push with the horn in time past, and men have told his
owner, and he have not removed him, but he have killed a man or a woman; the bull
shall be stoned, and his owner shall die also. <sup>30</sup>And if there be laid on him a ransom,
then he shall give for the ransom of his soul as much as they shall lay upon him. <sup>31</sup>And
if he gore a son, or gore a daughter, according to this ordinance let them do unto him.
<sup>32</sup>And if the bull shall gore a manservant or a maidservant, he shall give unto their
master thirty didrachmas of silver, and the bull shall be stoned. <sup>33</sup>Now if any one shall
open a pit, or hew a pit, or dig a cave in stone, and not cover it, and an ox or an ass fall
therein; <sup>34</sup>the owner of the pit shall make it good; he shall give money unto the owner of
them, and the dead beast shall be his. <sup>35</sup>And if any man's bull gore his neighbour's
bull, and he die, then they shall sell the live bull, and divide the money, and the dead
bull also shall they divide. <sup>36</sup>But if it be known that the bull hath used to push in time
past, and they have testified unto his owner and he hath not removed him, he shall
repay bull for bull, but the dead shall be his own.