---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 22
chapter_order_number: 22
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---

<sup>74</sup>CHAPTER <sup>22</sup>
 'Now if any one shall steal a calf, or a sheep, and kill it, or sell it; he shall pay
five calves for the calf, and four sheep for the sheep. <sup>2</sup>And if the thief be found in the
breach, and be smitten, and die, there shall no blood be shed for him. <sup>3</sup>But if the sun
be risen upon him, he is guilty; he shall die instead. And if he have nothing, let him be
sold to make restitution for what he hath stolen. <sup>4</sup>And if the thing that is stolen be left,
and be in his hand alive, whether it be calf, or ass, or sheep, he shall restore them
double. <sup>5</sup>And if any feed down a field or vineyard, and shall send in his beast to feed
down another field, of his own field according to his own yield shall he make restitution.
And if he have fed down the whole field, the best of his own field, and of the best of his
own vineyard, shall he pay in restitution. <sup>6</sup>And if fire have gone forth, and caught
thorns, and set fire to threshing floors, or ears of corn, or a field; he that kindled the fire
shall make restitution. <sup>7</sup>And if any give unto his neighbour money or stuff to keep, and
they be stolen out of the man's house; if the thief be found, he shall repay double. <sup>8</sup>But
if the thief be not found, the master of the house shall come forward before God, and
shall  swear  that  he  hath  surely  not  wrought  wickedly  against  any  part  of  his
neighbour's deposit. <sup>9</sup>According to every injury that is alleged, both for a calf, for an
ass, for a sheep, and for raiment, or for any of lost thing that is alleged, whatsoever it be
indeed, the judgment of both shall proceed before God, and he that is convicted by God
shall repay double unto his neighbour. <sup>10</sup>Now if any give unto his neighbour a calf, or a
sheep, or any beast, to keep, and it be hurt, or die, or be taken, no man knowing it;
<sup>11</sup>then shall an oath of God be between them both, that he hath surely not at all been
guilty in the matter of his neighbour's deposit, and so his master shall accept him
guiltless, and he shall not make restitution. <sup>12</sup>But if it were stolen from him, he shall
make restitution unto the owner. <sup>13</sup>And if it were seized of wild beasts, then he shall
bring him to the prey, and he shall not make restitution. <sup>14</sup>And if any borrow of his
neighbour, and it be wounded, or die, or be carried off, and the owner thereof be not
with it, he shall make restitution. <sup>15</sup>But if the owner were with it, he shall not make
restitution, but if he were a hireling there shall be unto him restitution for his hire. 
<sup>16</sup>'And if any man beguile a maid that is not betrothed, and lie with her, he
shall surely endow her to be a wife unto himself. <sup>17</sup>And if her father utterly refuse, and
will not consent to give her unto him for a wife, he shall pay silver to her father
according to the amount of the dowry of virgins. <sup>18</sup>Ye shall not suffer a sorcerer to live.
<sup>19</sup>Every one that lieth with a beast, ye shall surely put to death. <sup>20</sup>He that sacrificeth
unto any gods, save unto the LORD only, he shall be utterly destroyed. 
<sup>21</sup>“And ye shall neither hurt a stranger nor oppress him; for ye were strangers in
the land of Egypt. <sup>22</sup>Ye shall not hurt any widow and fatherless child. <sup>23</sup>And if ye afflict
them by ill use, and they cry aloud unto Me, I will surely hear their voice; <sup>24</sup>and I will be
exceeding wroth, and I will kill you with the sword; and your wives shall be widows and
your children fatherless. <sup>25</sup>Now if thou lend money to thy poor brother that is by thee,
thou shalt not be hard upon him; thou shalt not exact usury of him. <sup>26</sup>And if thou take
thy neighbour's raiment to pledge, thou shalt restore it by the time that the sun goeth
down; <sup>27</sup>for that is his clothing, the only covering for his shame; wherein shall he sleep?
If he then cry unto Me, I will hear him, for I am merciful. <sup>28</sup>Thou shalt not revile gods,
and thou shalt not speak evil of the rulers of thy people. <sup>29</sup>Thou shalt not keep back the
first­fruits of thy threshing floor and press; the firstborn of thy sons shalt thou give
unto Me. <sup>30</sup>Likewise shalt thou do with thy calf, and with thy sheep, and with thine ass;
seven days it shall be under the dam, but the eighth day thou shalt give it Me. <sup>31</sup>And ye
shall be holy men unto Me; neither shall ye eat flesh that is torn of beasts of the field;
ye shall cast it to the dog.