---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 23
chapter_order_number: 23
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---
<sup>75</sup>CHAPTER <sup>23</sup>
'Thou shalt not accept a vain report; thou shalt not consent with the unjust
man to be an unjust witness. <sup>2</sup>Thou shall not be with the multitude for evil; neither
shalt thou join thyself unto a multitude, to turn aside with the most number for to shut
out judgment. <sup>3</sup>Neither shalt thou spare a poor man in judgment. <sup>4</sup>Now if thou meet
thine enemy's ox or his beast of burden going astray, thou shalt turn back, and restore
them unto him. <sup>5</sup>And if thou see thine enemy's ass fallen under his burden, thou shalt
not pass him by, but shalt raise it with him. <sup>6</sup>Thou shalt not wrest the judgment of a
poor man in his cause. <sup>7</sup>Thou shalt abstain from every unjust thing. The innocent and
righteous shalt thou not slay, and the ungodly shalt thou not justify for gifts. <sup>8</sup>And
thou shalt not receive gifts; for gifts blind the eyes of them that see, and pervert just
words. <sup>9</sup>Also ye shall not oppress a stranger; for ye know the heart of a stranger, for ye
were yourselves strangers in the land of Egypt.
<sup>10</sup>'Six years shalt thou sow thy land, and shalt gather in the fruits thereof.
<sup>11</sup>But the seventh year thou shalt let it rest and leave it, and the poor of thy nation shall
feed; and what is left the wild beasts of the field shall eat. In like manner thou shalt
deal with thy vineyard, and with thy olive­yard. <sup>12</sup>Six days shalt thou do thy works, and
on the seventh day there shall be rest; that thine ox and thine ass may rest, and the
son of thy handmaid, and the stranger may be refreshed. <sup>13</sup>All things whatsoever I have
commanded ye; do ye observe. 
'And ye shall make no mention of the name of other gods, neither shall they be
heard out of thy mouth. <sup>14</sup>Three times keep ye a feast unto Me in the year. <sup>15</sup>Take heed
to keep the feast of unleavened bread; thou shalt eat unleavened bread seven days, as I
commanded thee, in the time of the month of the new things; for in it thou camest out
of Egypt; thou shalt not appear before Me empty. <sup>16</sup>And thou shalt keep the feast of the
harvest of first­fruits of thy labours, whatsoever thou hast sown in thy field; and the
feast of ingathering at the end of the year, in the ingathering of thy fruits out of thy
field. <sup>17</sup>Three times in the year all thy males shall appear before the LORD thy God.
<sup>18</sup>For when I shall have cast out the nations before thee, and shall have widened thy
borders, thou shalt not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leaven, neither shall the fat
of my sacrifice remain until the morning. <sup>19</sup>The first of the first­fruits of thy land thou
shalt bring into the house of the LORD thy God. Thou shalt not seethe a lamb in his
mother's milk. 
<sup>20</sup>“And behold, I send Mine angel before thy face to keep thee in the way, to
bring thee into the land which I have prepared for thee. <sup>21</sup>Take heed to thyself, and
hearken unto him, and disobey him not; for he will not give way to thee; for My name is
on him. <sup>22</sup>If ye shall indeed hearken unto My voice, and if thou shalt do all that I
command thee and keep My covenant, ye shall be unto Me a peculiar people above all
nations, for all the earth is Mine. And ye shall be unto Me a royal priesthood and a holy
nation. These words shall ye speak unto the children of Israel, if ye shall indeed hear
My voice, and do all that I tell thee, I will be an enemy unto thine enemies, and an
adversary unto thine adversaries. <sup>23</sup>For Mine angel shall go as thy leader and bring
thee unto the Amorite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the Canaanite, and the
Gergashite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite, and I will cut them off. <sup>24</sup>Thou shalt not
bow down to their gods, nor serve them; thou shalt not do after their works, but thou
shalt utterly destroy them, and quite break in pieces their pillars. <sup>25</sup>And thou shalt
serve the LORD thy God, and I will bless thy bread, and thy wine, and thy water, and I
will turn sickness away from thee. <sup>26</sup>There shall be not one that is impotent or barren
in thy land; the number of thy days I will surely fulfill. <sup>27</sup>And I will send fear before
thee, and strike with astonishment all the nations unto whom thou shalt come, and I
will make all thine enemies to flee. <sup>28</sup>And I will send hornets before thee, and thou shalt<sup>76</sup>cast out the Amorites, and the Hivites, and the Canaanites, and the Hittites, from
before thee. <sup>29</sup>I will not cast them out in one year, lest the land become desolate, and
the beasts of the field multiply against thee. <sup>30</sup>By little will I cast them out from before
thee, until thou be increased, and inherit the earth. <sup>31</sup>And I will set thy bounds from
the Red Sea even unto the sea of the Philistines, and from the desert unto the great
river Euphrates. And I will give them that dwell in the land into your hand, and I will
cast them out from before thee. <sup>32</sup>Thou shalt make no covenant with them and their
gods. <sup>33</sup>And they shall not dwell in thy land, lest they make thee sin against Me; for if
thou serve their gods, these will be a stumbling­block to thee.'