---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 24
chapter_order_number: 24
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>24</sup>
And he said unto Moses, 'Come up unto the LORD, thou, and Aaron, and
Nadab, and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel, and they shall make obeisance
unto the LORD afar off. <sup>2</sup>And Moses alone shall come near to God, but they shall not
come nigh, neither shall the people come up with them.' <sup>3</sup>And Moses went in, and told
the people all the words of God, and the ordinances; and all the people answered with
one voice, and said, 'All the words which the LORD hath said will we do and heed'.
<sup>4</sup>And Moses wrote all the words of the LORD. Now Moses rose up early in the morning,
and builded an altar under the mount, and twelve stones for the twelve tribes of Israel.
<sup>5</sup>And he sent the young men of the children of Israel, and they offered whole burnt­
offerings, and sacrificed young calves as a peace offering unto God. <sup>6</sup>Now Moses took
half of the blood, and poured it in basins, and half of the blood he poured out upon the
altar. <sup>7</sup>And he took the book of the covenant, and read in the ears of the people, and
they said, 'All whatsoever the LORD hath said will we do, and hearken therein'. <sup>8</sup>Then
Moses took the blood, and sprinkled it upon the people, and said, 'Behold the blood of
the covenant, which the LORD hath made with you concerning all these words.'
<sup>9</sup>Then went up Moses, and Aaron, and Nadab, and Abihu, and seventy of the
elders of Israel. <sup>10</sup>And they saw the place where the God of Israel did stand, and there
was under His feet, as it were, a work of sapphire stones, and as it were the appearance
of the firmament of heaven in His clearness. <sup>11</sup>And there was not of the chosen of Israel
even one missing; also they appeared in the place of God, and did eat and drink. <sup>12</sup>And
the LORD said unto Moses, 'Come up to Me into the mount, and be there, and I will give
thee the tablets of stone, and the law, and the commandments, which I have written, to
give them laws'. <sup>13</sup>And Moses rose up, and his minister Joshua, and they went up into
the mount of God. <sup>14</sup>And they said unto the elders, 'Tarry ye still here until we come
again unto you. And, behold, Aaron and Hur are with you; if any man have a cause to
be tried, let them go unto them.' <sup>15</sup>And Moses and Joshua went up into the mount, and
the cloud covered the mount. <sup>16</sup>And the glory of God came down upon the mount Sinai,
and the cloud covered it six days; and the seventh day the LORD called unto Moses out
of the midst of the cloud. <sup>17</sup>Now the appearance of the glory of the LORD was like
burning fire on the top of the mount before the children of Israel. <sup>18</sup>And Moses went
into the midst of the cloud, and got him up into the mount, and was there in the mount
forty days and forty nights.