---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 25
chapter_order_number: 25
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>25</sup>
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <sup>2</sup>'Speak unto the children of Israel,
and take first­fruits of all them to whom it seemeth good in their heart to give, and ye
shall take My first­fruits. <sup>3</sup>And this is the first­fruit which ye shall take of them; gold,
and silver, and brass <sup>4</sup>and blue and purple and double scarlet and fine spun linen and<sup>77</sup>goats' hair, <sup>5</sup>and rams' skins dyed red, and blue skins, and wood that doth not rot, and
<sup>6</sup>oil for the light, and incense for the oil of anointing and for the composition of incense,
and stones of sardius, and stones for the carved work of the shoulder­piece, and the
full­length robe. <sup>7</sup>And thou shalt make Me a sanctuary, and I will appear among you.
<sup>8</sup>And thou shalt make for Me according to all that I shew thee in the mount, even the
pattern of the tabernacle, and the pattern of all the furniture thereof, even so shalt thou
make it. 
<sup>9</sup>'And thou shalt make the ark of testimony of wood that doth not rot; two
cubits and a half shall be the length thereof, and a cubit and a half the breadth thereof,
and a cubit and a half the height thereof. <sup>10</sup>And thou shalt gild it with pure gold, within
and without shalt thou gild it, and shalt make for it wreaths of gold twisted round
about. <sup>11</sup>And thou shalt cast four rings of gold for it, and put them on the four sides,
two rings on the one side, and two rings on the second side. <sup>12</sup>And thou shalt make
staves of wood that doth not rot, and gild them with gold. <sup>13</sup>And thou shalt put the
staves into the rings on the sides of the ark, to bear the ark with them. <sup>14</sup>In the rings of
the ark shall the staves be fastened. <sup>15</sup>And thou shalt put into the ark the testimonies
which I shall give thee. <sup>16</sup>And thou shalt make a propitiatory, a lid of pure gold, the
length thereof two cubits and a half, and the breadth thereof a cubit and a half. <sup>17</sup>And
thou shalt make two cherubims, graven in gold, and thou shalt put them on both sides
of the propitiatory. <sup>18</sup>And they shall be made one cherub on this side, and another
cherub on the second side of the propitiatory, and thou shalt make the two cherubims
on the two sides thereof. <sup>19</sup>The cherubims shall stretch forth their wings above, and
overshadow the propitiatory with their wings, and their faces shall be toward each
other; toward the propitiatory shall the faces of the cherubims be. <sup>20</sup>And thou shalt set
the propitiatory above on the ark, and in the ark thou shalt put the testimonies that I
shall give thee. <sup>21</sup>And I will make Myself known unto thee from thence, and I will
commune with thee from above the propitiatory, from between the two cherubims which
are upon the ark of the testimony, in all things which I will give thee in commandment
concerning the children of Israel. 
<sup>22</sup>'Thou shalt also make a table of gold, of pure gold; two cubits shall be the
length thereof, a cubit the breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof.
<sup>23</sup>And thou shalt make for it wreaths of gold twisted round about, and thou shalt make
for it a crown of a handbreadth round about. <sup>24</sup>And thou shalt make a twisted wreath
for the crown round about. <sup>25</sup>And thou shalt make four rings of gold, and put the four
rings upon the four parts of the feet thereof under the crown. <sup>26</sup>And the rings shall be
for bearings for the staves, that they may bear the table with them. <sup>27</sup>And thou shalt
make the staves of wood that doth not rot, and gild them with pure gold, and the table
shall be borne with them. <sup>28</sup>And thou shalt make the dishes thereof, and the censers
thereof, and the bowls thereof, and the cups thereof, wherewith thou shalt offer drink
offerings; of pure gold shalt thou make them. <sup>29</sup>And thou shalt set upon the table, face
to face, loaves of bread before me continually. 
<sup>30</sup>'And thou shalt make a lampstand of pure gold; of graven work shalt thou
make the lampstand; the stem thereof, and the branches thereof, and the bowls thereof,
and the buds thereof, and the lilies shall be of the same. <sup>31</sup>And six branches shall come
out of the side; three branches of the lampstand out of the one side thereof, and three
branches from the second side. <sup>32</sup>And three bowls shall be made like unto almonds,
upon each branch a bud and a lily; so too the six branches that proceed out of the
lampstand, <sup>33</sup>and in the lampstand four bowls, made like unto almonds, in each branch
buds and lilies of the same. <sup>34</sup>A bud under two branches out of the same and a bud
under four branches of the same; so too for the six branches that proceed out of the
lampstand, <sup>35</sup>and in the lampstand four bowls made like unto almonds. <sup>36</sup>Let the buds
and the branches be of the same, altogether graven of one piece of pure gold. <sup>37</sup>And
thou shalt make the seven lamps thereof, and thou shalt set the lamps thereon, and<sup>78</sup>they shall shine from one front. <sup>38</sup>And the funnel thereof and the under­parts thereof
shalt thou make of pure gold. <sup>39</sup>All of these vessels shall be of a talent of pure gold.
<sup>40</sup>See, thou shalt make them according to the pattern, which was shewed thee in the
mount.