---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 26
chapter_order_number: 26
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>26</sup>
'And thou shalt make the tabernacle with ten curtains of fine linen spun, and
blue, and purple, and red, spun with cherubims; by the work of a weaver shalt thou
make them. <sup>2</sup>The length of one curtain shall be eight and twenty cubits, and one
curtain shall be the breadth of four cubits; there shall be the same measure to all the
curtains. <sup>3</sup>And the five curtains shall be coupled together one to another; and other five
curtains shall be close coupled the one to the other. <sup>4</sup>And thou shalt make them loops
of blue upon the edge of the one curtain on one side for the coupling, and likewise shalt
thou make on the edge of the outer curtain for the second coupling. <sup>5</sup>Fifty loops shalt
thou make for the one curtain, and fifty loops shalt thou make in the part of the curtain
answering to the coupling of the second opposite each other, corresponding to each
other at each point. <sup>6</sup>And thou shalt make fifty rings of gold, and couple the curtains to
one another with the rings; and it shall be one tabernacle. <sup>7</sup>And thou shalt make skins
with the hair on to be a covering over the tabernacle; eleven skins shalt thou make
them. <sup>8</sup>The length of one skin shall be thirty cubits, and the breadth of one skin four
cubits, and to the eleven curtains shall there be the same measure. <sup>9</sup>And thou shalt
couple the five skins together, and the six skins together, and shalt double the sixth
skin in the forefront of the tabernacle. <sup>10</sup>And thou shalt make fifty loops on the edge of
the one skin, which is in the midst for the coupling, and fifty loops shalt thou make in
the edge of the second skin which coupleth it. <sup>11</sup>And thou shalt make fifty loops of
brass, and join the loops from the loops, and couple the skins together, and they shall
be one. <sup>12</sup>And the remnant shalt thou set in the skins of the tabernacle. The half of the
skin that remaineth shalt thou fold over for that which remaineth of the skins of the
tabernacle; thou shalt fold it over behind the tabernacle. <sup>13</sup>A cubit on this side, and a
cubit on that side of that which remaineth of the skins, of the length of the skins of the
tabernacle; it shall be to fold over the sides of the tabernacle on each side to cover it.
<sup>14</sup>And thou shalt make a covering for the tabernacle of rams' skins dyed red, and
coverings of blue skins above. <sup>15</sup>And thou shalt make the posts of the tabernacle of
wood that doth not rot. <sup>16</sup>Of ten cubits shalt thou make one post, and a cubit and a
half the breadth of one post. <sup>17</sup>Two tenons shalt thou make in the one post, answering
the one to the other; thus shalt thou make for all the posts of the tabernacle. <sup>18</sup>And
thou shalt make the posts for the tabernacle, twenty posts toward the north side. <sup>19</sup>And
thou shalt make forty bases of silver unto the twenty posts; two bases unto one post on
both his sides and two bases unto the other post on both its sides. <sup>20</sup>And for the next
side toward the south  there shall be  twenty posts, <sup>21</sup>and their forty silver bases; two
bases unto one post on both its sides, and two bases unto one post on both its sides.
<sup>22</sup>And on the hinder part of the tabernacle, at the part which is westward, shalt thou
make six posts. <sup>23</sup>And thou shalt make two posts on the corners of the tabernacle
behind. <sup>24</sup>And it shall be equal beneath; they shall be equal toward the selfsame part
from the heads unto one joining. So shalt thou make unto both the two corners; let
them be equal. <sup>25</sup>And there shall be eight posts, and their bases of silver, sixteen bases;
two bases unto one post on both its sides, and two bases unto the other post. <sup>26</sup>And
thou shalt make bars of wood that doth not rot; five bars unto one post on one side of
the tabernacle, <sup>27</sup>and five bars unto one post on the second side of tabernacle, and five
bars unto the hinder parts on the side of the tabernacle toward the sea. <sup>28</sup>And let the
bar in the midst between the posts go through from the one side unto the other. <sup>29</sup>And<sup>79</sup>thou shalt overlay the posts with gold, and make rings of gold, wherein thou shalt
introduce the bars, and thou shalt overlay the bars with gold. <sup>30</sup>And thou shalt rear up
the tabernacle according to the pattern that was shewed thee in the mount. <sup>31</sup>And thou
shalt make a veil of blue, and purple, and scarlet woven and fine linen spun; thou shalt
make it in woven work with cherubims. <sup>32</sup>And thou shalt set it upon four posts of wood
that doth not rot, overlaid with gold; and their capitals shall be gold, and their four
bases shall be of silver. <sup>33</sup>And thou shalt put the veil upon the posts, and shalt carry in
thither within the veil the ark of the testimony. And the veil shall make a separation for
you between the holy and the holy of holies. <sup>34</sup>And thou shalt screen with the veil the
ark of the testimony in the holy of holies. <sup>35</sup>And thou shalt set the table without the
veil, and the lampstand over against the table, on the south side of the tabernacle, and
thou shalt put the table on the north side of the tabernacle. <sup>36</sup>And thou shalt make a
screen for the door of the tabernacle of blue, and purple, and spun scarlet, and fine
linen spun, the work of the embroiderer. <sup>37</sup>And thou shalt make for the veil five posts;
and thou shalt gild them with gold, and their tops shall be gold, and thou shalt cast for
them five brazen bases.