---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 27
chapter_order_number: 27
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>27</sup>
'And thou shalt make an altar of wood that doth not rot, of five cubits in the
length, and five cubits in the breadth; the altar shall be foursquare, and the height
thereof shall be three cubits. <sup>2</sup>And thou shall make the horns upon the four corners;
the horns shall be of the same, and thou shalt overlay them with brass. <sup>3</sup>And thou
shalt make a rim for the altar, and the covering thereof, and the cups thereof, and the
flesh­hooks thereof, and the fire­pan thereof; and all the vessels thereof shalt thou
make of brass. <sup>4</sup>And thou shalt make for it a grate of brass with network, and for the
grate shalt thou make four brazen rings under the four sides. <sup>5</sup>And thou shalt put
them below under the grate of the altar, and the grate shall be even to the midst of the
altar. <sup>6</sup>And thou shalt make staves for the altar of wood that doth not rot, and overlay
them with brass. <sup>7</sup>And thou shalt put the staves into the rings, and let the staves be
upon the sides of the altar to bear it. <sup>8</sup>Hollow with boards shalt thou make it; according
to that which was shewed thee in the mount, so shalt thou make it. 
<sup>9</sup>And thou shalt make a court for the tabernacle; curtains of the court of fine
linen spun on the south side, the length of an hundred cubits for each side. <sup>10</sup>And
twenty the pillars thereof; and twenty sockets of brass for them, and the rings and
clasps thereof of silver. <sup>11</sup>Thus shall there be to the side toward the east curtains of an
hundred cubits in length, and the pillars thereof twenty, and the sockets thereof of
brass twenty, and the rings and the clasps of the pillars, and their sockets overlaid with
silver. <sup>12</sup>And in the breadth of the tabernacle toward the west shall be curtains of fifty
cubits; the pillars thereof ten, and the sockets thereof ten. <sup>13</sup>And in the breadth of the
tabernacle toward the south shall be curtains of fifty cubits; the pillars thereof ten, and
the sockets thereof ten. <sup>14</sup>And the height of the curtains shall be of fifty cubits for the
one side; the pillars thereof three, and the sockets thereof three. <sup>15</sup>And as for the
second side; the height of the curtains of fifteen cubits; the pillars thereof three, and the
sockets thereof three. <sup>16</sup>And a veil for the door of the court, the height of twenty cubits,
of blue linen, and of purple, and of spun scarlet, and of fine linen spun with the art of
the embroiderer; the pillars thereof four, and the sockets thereof four. <sup>17</sup>All the pillars
round about of the court shall be overlaid with silver, and the capitals thereof of silver,
and the sockets thereof of brass. <sup>18</sup>And the length of the court shall be an hundred
cubits on each side, and the breadth fifty on each side, and the height five cubits of fine
linen spun, and the sockets thereof of brass. <sup>19</sup>And all the furniture and all the
instruments and pins of the court shall be of brass. <sup>8020</sup>And do thou command the children of Israel, and let them take for thee
refined pure oil olive beaten to burn for light that a lamp may burn continually. <sup>21</sup>In the
tabernacle of witness without the veil that is over the covenant, Aaron and his sons
shall  burn  it  from  evening  until  morning  before  the  LORD.  This  is  a  perpetual
ordinance throughout your generations of the children of Israel.