---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 28
chapter_order_number: 28
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>28</sup>
'And take thou unto thee both Aaron thy brother, and his sons even of the
children of Israel, that even Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, and Eleazar and Ithamar, Aaron's
sons, may minister unto Me. <sup>2</sup>And thou shalt make holy garments for Aaron thy
brother  for  honour  and  for  glory. <sup>3</sup>And  speak  thou  unto  all  that  are  wise  in
understanding, whom I have filled with the spirit of wisdom and perception, and they
shall make Aaron's holy garments for the sanctuary in the which he shall minister unto
Me in the priest's office. <sup>4</sup>And these are the garments which they shall make; the
breastplate, and the shoulder­piece, and the full­length robe, and the tunic with a
fringe, and the tire, and the girdle. And they shall make holy garments for Aaron and
his sons, to minister unto me in the priest's office. <sup>5</sup>And they shall take the gold, and
the blue, and the purple, and the scarlet, and the fine linen. <sup>6</sup>And they shall make the
ephod of fine linen spun, the woven work of the embroiderer. <sup>7</sup>It shall have two
shoulder­pieces joined together, fastened on the two sides. <sup>8</sup>And the woven work of the
shoulder­piece, which is upon it, shall be of the one piece according to the work, even of
pure gold, and blue, and purple, and spun scarlet, and fine twined linen. <sup>9</sup>And thou
shalt take the two stones, the stones of emerald, and grave on them the names of the
children of Israel, <sup>10</sup>six names on the one stone and the other six names on the second
stone, according to their births. <sup>11</sup>With the work of the art of engraver in stone, the
graving of a seal, shalt thou engrave the two stones with the names of the children of
Israel. <sup>12</sup>And thou shalt put the two stones on the shoulders of the ephod. Stones of
memorial are they for the children of Israel, and Aaron shall bear the names of the
children of Israel before the LORD upon his two shoulders, for a memorial for them.
<sup>13</sup>And thou shalt make bosses of pure gold, <sup>14</sup>and two fringes of pure gold shalt thou
make, mingled with flowers, a wreathen work. And thou shalt put the wreathen fringes
on the bosses, and fasten them upon the shoulder­pieces thereof in front. <sup>15</sup>And thou
shalt make the oracle of judgment, the work of the embroiderer. After the work of the
ephod shalt thou make it, of gold, of blue, and of purple, and of twined red, and of fine
twined linen. <sup>16</sup>Foursquare shalt thou make it; it shall be doubled. Of a span shall be
the length thereof, and of a span the breadth thereof. <sup>17</sup>And thou shalt interweave with
it a texture of four rows of stone. There shall be a row of stones; a sardius, a topaz, an
emerald, the first row. <sup>18</sup>And the second row; a carbuncle, a sapphire, and a jasper.
<sup>19</sup>And the third row; a ligure, an agate, an amethyst. <sup>20</sup>And the fourth row; a chrysolite,
and a beryl, and an onyx stone set round with gold bound together with gold; let them
be according to their row. <sup>21</sup>And let the stones of the names of the children of Israel be
twelve, according to their names, engravings as of seals; let them be for the twelve
tribes, each according to the name. <sup>22</sup>And thou shalt make upon the oracle woven
fringes, a chain­work of pure gold. <sup>23</sup>And Aaron shall take the names of the children of
Israel in the oracle of judgment upon his breast, a memorial before God for him, when
he goeth in unto the holy place. <sup>24</sup>And thou shalt put the fringes upon the oracle of
judgment. Thou shalt put the wreaths on both sides of the oracle, <sup>25</sup>and thou shalt put
the two bosses on both the shoulders of the ephod in front. <sup>26</sup>And thou shalt put the
Manifestation and the Truth upon the oracle of judgment, and it shall be upon the
breast of Aaron whensoever he goeth into the holy place before the LORD. And Aaron
shall bear the judgments of the children of Israel upon his breast before the LORD<sup>81</sup>continually. <sup>27</sup>And thou shalt make the full­length robe all of blue. <sup>28</sup>And the opening
of it shall be in the midst thereof; it shall have a border round about the opening, the
work of a weaver, woven together in the joining of the same, that it be not rent. <sup>29</sup>And
beneath the fringe of the robe below thou shalt make as it were pomegranates of a
flowering pomegranate tree, of blue, and of purple, and of spun red, and of fine linen
twined upon the fringe of the robe round about; golden pomegranates of the same
shape, and bells between them round about. <sup>30</sup>By the side of a golden pomegranate; a
bell, and floral work upon the fringe of the robe round about. <sup>31</sup>And Aaron's sound
shall be heard in his ministering, when he goeth in unto the holy place before the
LORD, and when he cometh out, lest that he die. <sup>32</sup>And thou shalt make a plate of pure
gold, and grave upon the engraving of a signet HOLINESS OF THE LORD. <sup>33</sup>And thou
shalt put it on the spun blue cloth, and it shall be upon the headtire; upon the forefront
of the headtire it shall be. <sup>34</sup>And it shall be upon Aaron's forehead, and Aaron shall
bear away the sins of their holy things, all that the children of Israel shall hallow of
every gift of their holy things. And it shall be upon Aaron's forehead, continually
acceptable for them before the LORD. <sup>35</sup>And the fringes of the garments shall be of fine
linen. And thou shalt make a tire of fine linen, and thou shalt make a girdle, the work
of the embroiderer. <sup>36</sup>And for Aaron's sons shalt thou make tunics, and girdles; and
thou shalt make them headtires for honour and glory. <sup>37</sup>And thou shalt put them upon
Aaron thy brother, and his sons with him; and shalt anoint them, and fill their hands,
and sanctify them, that they may minister unto Me in the priest's office. <sup>38</sup>And thou
shalt make them linen breeches to hide the nakedness of their flesh; from the loins even
unto  the  thighs  they  shall  reach. <sup>39</sup>And  Aaron  shall  have  them,  and  his  sons,
whensoever they come in unto the tabernacle of witness, or when they come near unto
the altar of the holy place to minister; so shall they bring not sin upon themselves, lest
they die. This is a perpetual ordinance for him, and for his seed after him.