---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 29
chapter_order_number: 29
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>29</sup>
'And these are the things that thou shalt do unto them to hallow them, to
minister unto Me in the priest's office. And thou shalt take one young calf out of the
herd, and two rams without blemish, <sup>2</sup>and unleavened loaves kneaded with oil, and
unleavened cakes anointed with oil; of fine wheaten flour shalt thou make them. <sup>3</sup>And
thou shalt put them upon one basket, and offer them in the basket, and the young calf
and the two rams. <sup>4</sup>And Aaron and his sons thou shalt bring unto the doors of the
tabernacle of witness, and shalt wash them with water. <sup>5</sup>And thou shalt take the
garments, and put upon Aaron thy brother the full­length robe, and the ephod, and the
oracle, and thou shalt join for him the oracle to the ephod. <sup>6</sup>And thou shalt put the
headtire upon his head, and put the plate, the Holiness, upon the headtire. <sup>7</sup>And thou
shalt take of the anointing oil, and pour it upon his head, and anoint him. <sup>8</sup>And thou
shalt bring his sons, and put garments upon them. <sup>9</sup>And thou shalt gird them with
girdles, and put the bonnets on them, and they shall have a priestly office unto Me for
ever. And thou shalt fill the hands of Aaron, and his sons' hands. <sup>10</sup>And thou shalt
bring the calf unto the door of the tabernacle of witness, and Aaron and his sons shall
lay  their hands  upon the  head of  the calf  before the  LORD by  the doors  of the
tabernacle of witness. <sup>11</sup>And thou shalt kill the calf before the LORD, by the doors of
the tabernacle of witness. <sup>12</sup>And thou shalt take of the blood of the calf, and put it upon
the horns of the altar with thy finger; but all the rest of the blood shalt thou pour out at
the foot of the altar. <sup>13</sup>And thou shalt take all the fat that is upon the belly, and the
lobe of the liver, and the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, and put them
upon the altar. <sup>14</sup>But the flesh of the calf, and its skin, and its dung, shalt thou burn
with fire without the camp; for it is for a sin offering. <sup>15</sup>Thou shalt also take one ram,<sup>82</sup>and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands upon the head of the ram. <sup>16</sup>And thou
shalt slay it, and thou shalt take its blood, and pour it round about upon the altar.
<sup>17</sup>And thou shalt divide the ram by its several limbs, and wash the inwards with water,
and the feet, and put them upon the divided parts with the head. <sup>18</sup>And thou shalt offer
the whole ram upon the altar, a whole burnt­offering unto the LORD for a sweet
smelling savour; it is an offering of incense unto the LORD. <sup>19</sup>And thou shalt take the
second ram, and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands upon the head of the ram.
<sup>20</sup>And thou shalt kill it, and take of its blood, and put it upon the tip of the right ear of
Aaron, and upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the great toe of his right foot,
and upon the tips of the right ear of his sons, and upon the thumbs of their right
hands, and upon the great toes of their right feet. <sup>21</sup>And thou shalt take of the blood
that is upon the altar, and of the anointing oil, and thou shalt sprinkle it upon Aaron,
and upon his garments, and upon his sons, and upon the garments of his sons with
him. And he shall be hallowed, and his garments, and his sons, and his sons' garments
with him; but the blood of the ram shalt thou pour round about upon the altar. <sup>22</sup>Also
thou shalt take of the ram its fat, both the fat that covereth the body, and the lobe of
the liver, and the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, and the right shoulder; for
this is a ram of ordination; <sup>23</sup>also one cake with oil, and one cake from the basket of
unleavened bread that is set forth before the LORD. <sup>24</sup>And thou shalt put all upon the
hands of Aaron, and upon the hands of his sons, and thou shalt separate them for a
separate offering before the LORD. <sup>25</sup>And thou shalt take them from their hands, and
offer them up upon the altar of whole burnt­offering for a sweet smelling savour before
the LORD; it is an offering unto the LORD. <sup>26</sup>And thou shalt take the breast of the ram
of Aaron's consecration, and separate it as a separate offering before the LORD, and it
shall be unto thee for a portion. <sup>27</sup>And thou shalt sanctify the separated breast, and the
shoulder of removal, which hath been separated and hath been removed from the ram
of consecration, of the portion of Aaron and his sons. <sup>28</sup>And it shall be a perpetual
statute of the children of Israel unto Aaron and his sons, for this is a separate offering;
and it shall be a special offering from the children of Israel, from the peace offerings of
the children of Israel, a special offering unto the LORD. <sup>29</sup>And the apparel of the
sanctuary which is Aaron's shall be his sons' after him, for them to be anointed therein,
and to fill their hands. <sup>30</sup>Seven days shall the priest his successor from among his sons
put on these things, who shall go into the tabernacle of witness to minister in the place.
<sup>31</sup>And thou shalt take the ram of consecration, and seethe his flesh in the holy place.
<sup>32</sup>And Aaron and his sons shall eat the flesh of the ram, and the loaves that are in the
basket  by  the  doors  of  the  tabernacle  of  witness. <sup>33</sup>They  shall  eat  the  offerings
wherewith they were hallowed, to fill their hands, to sanctify them; and a stranger shall
not eat thereof, because they are holy. <sup>34</sup>And if the flesh of the sacrifice of consecration
be left, and of the loaves, until the morning, thou shalt burn the remainder with fire; it
shall not be eaten, because it is holy. <sup>35</sup>And thus shalt thou do unto Aaron, and to his
sons, according to all things which I have commanded thee; seven days shalt thou fill
their hands. <sup>36</sup>And thou shalt sacrifice the calf of the sin offering on the day of
purification, and thou shalt cleanse the altar when thou perform consecration upon it,
and thou shalt anoint it to sanctify it. <sup>37</sup>Seven days shalt thou cleanse the altar, and
sanctify it, and the altar shall be most holy; every one that toucheth the altar shall be
hallowed. <sup>38</sup>And these are the offerings which thou shalt offer upon the altar; two
unblemished lambs of the first year daily on the altar continually, a constant offering.
<sup>39</sup>One lamb thou shalt offer in the morning, and the second lamb thou shalt offer at
even. <sup>40</sup>And a tenth measure of fine flour mingled with the fourth part of an hin of
beaten oil; and a drink offering the fourth part of an hin of wine for one lamb. <sup>41</sup>And the
second lamb thou shalt offer at even after the manner of the morning offering, and
according to the drink offering of the morning lamb; thou shalt offer it an offering unto
the  LORD  for  a  sweet  smelling  savour, <sup>42</sup>a  perpetual  sacrifice  throughout  your<sup>83</sup>generations at the door of the tabernacle of witness before the LORD, wherein I will be
known unto thee from thence, to speak unto thee. <sup>43</sup>And I will there give commandment
unto the children of Israel, and I will be sanctified in My glory. <sup>44</sup>And I will sanctify the
tabernacle of witness, and the altar; I will also sanctify Aaron and his sons, to minister
to Me in the priest's office. <sup>45</sup>And I will be called upon among the children of Israel, and
I will be their God. <sup>46</sup>And they shall know that I am the LORD their God, that brought
them out of the land of Egypt, to be called upon by them, and to be their God.