---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 30
chapter_order_number: 30
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>30</sup>
'And thou shalt make the altar of incense of wood that doth not rot. <sup>2</sup>And a
cubit in length shalt thou make it, and a cubit in breadth. Foursquare shall it be, and
two cubits shall be the height thereof; the horns thereof shall be of the same. <sup>3</sup>And
thou shalt overlay the grate thereof with pure gold, and the sides thereof round about,
and the horns thereof; and thou shalt make for it a wreathen border of gold round
about. <sup>4</sup>And two pure golden rings shalt thou make to it under the wreathen border
thereof; unto the two corners upon the two sides thou shalt make it, and they shall be
for bearings for the staves to bear it with them. <sup>5</sup>And thou shalt make the staves of
wood that doth not rot, and overlay them with gold. <sup>6</sup>And thou shalt put it before the
veil that is over the ark of the testimonies, wherein I will make Myself known unto thee
from thence. <sup>7</sup>And Aaron shall burn thereon fine compound incense every morning;
when he dresseth the lamps, he shall burn incense upon it. <sup>8</sup>And when Aaron lighteth
the lamps at even, he shall burn incense upon it; a constant incense offering always
before the LORD for their generations. <sup>9</sup>And thou shalt offer no strange incense
thereon, and offering made by fire, nor a sacrifice; neither shalt thou pour a drink
offering thereon. <sup>10</sup>And Aaron shall make atonement upon the horns of it once in a
year. By means of the blood of purification of sins, the atonement, once in the year
shall he purge it for their generations. It is a holy of holies unto the LORD.' 
<sup>11</sup>And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <sup>12</sup>'If thou take account of the
children of Israel in the overseeing of them, and they give every man a ransom for his
soul unto the LORD, then shall there not be among them destruction in the visiting of
them. <sup>13</sup>And this is what they shall give, as many as do pass the survey; half a
didrachma according to the didrachma of the sanctuary, twenty obols to the didrachma.
Now the half of the didrachma is an offering unto the LORD. <sup>14</sup>Every one that passeth
the survey, from twenty years old and above, shall give the offering unto the LORD.
<sup>15</sup>The rich shall not give more, and the poor shall not give less than the half of the
didrachma, in giving the offering unto the LORD, to make an atonement for your souls.
<sup>16</sup>And thou shalt take the silver of the offering of the children of Israel, and shalt give it
for the service of the tabernacle of witness; and it shall be a memorial unto the children
of Israel before the LORD, to make an atonement for your souls.' 
<sup>17</sup>And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <sup>18</sup>'Make a laver of brass and a foot
of brass for it to wash withal, and thou shalt put it between the tabernacle of witness
and the altar, and thou shalt pour water therein. <sup>19</sup>And Aaron and his sons shall wash
their  hands  and  their  feet  with  water  therefrom. <sup>20</sup>Whensoever  they  go  into  the
tabernacle of witness, they shall wash themselves with water, and they shall not die; or
whensoever they come near unto the altar to minister and to offer the whole burnt­
offering unto the LORD. <sup>21</sup>When they go into the tabernacle of witness, they shall wash
their hands and their feet with water; they shall wash their hands and their feet with
water, lest they die. And it shall be a perpetual statute to them, even to him and to his
generations after him.'  <sup>22</sup>And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <sup>23</sup>'Take thou also
unto thee sweet herbs, the flower of choice myrrh five hundred shekels, and of sweet
smelling cinnamon half so much, even two hundred and fifty shekels, and of sweet<sup>84</sup>calamus two hundred and fifty shekels, <sup>24</sup>and of cassia five hundred shekels of the
sanctuary, and of olive oil an hin. <sup>25</sup>And thou shalt make it an oil of holy anointing, a
perfumed ointment by the art of the perfumer; it shall be a holy anointing oil. <sup>26</sup>And
thou shalt anoint the tabernacle of witness therewith, and the ark of the tabernacle of
witness <sup>27</sup>and all its furniture, and the lampstand and all its furniture, and the altar of
incense, <sup>28</sup>and the altar of whole burnt­offerings and all its furniture, and the table and
all its furniture, and the laver. <sup>29</sup>And thou shalt sanctify them, and they shall be most
holy; every one that toucheth them shall be hallowed. <sup>30</sup>And thou shalt anoint Aaron
and his sons and sanctify them, that they may minister unto Me in the priest's office.
<sup>31</sup>And thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel, saying, “This shall be a holy
anointing oil unto you throughout your generations”. <sup>32</sup>Upon man's flesh shall it not be
poured, neither shall ye make unto you according to this composition; it is holy, and it
shall be holiness to you. <sup>33</sup>Whosoever maketh it in like manner and whosoever giveth of
it unto a stranger shall be cut off from among his people.' <sup>34</sup>And the LORD said unto
Moses, 'Take unto thee sweet herbs, stacte, onycha, sweet galbanum, and transparent
frankincense; of each shall there be a like weight. <sup>35</sup>And they shall make of it perfumed
incense tempered with the art of a perfumer, a pure holy work. <sup>36</sup>And thou shalt beat
some of these small, and put of it before the testimonies in the tabernacle of witness,
whence I will make Myself known unto thee; it shall be unto you a most holy incense.
<sup>37</sup>Ye shall not make any to yourselves according to the composition thereof; it shall be
unto thee a holy thing for the LORD. <sup>38</sup>Whosoever shall make any in like manner to
smell thereto, shall even perish from his people.'