---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 31
chapter_order_number: 31
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---
 
CHAPTER <sup>31</sup>
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <sup>2</sup>'Behold, I have called by name
Bezaleel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah. <sup>3</sup>And I have filled him with
a divine spirit of wisdom, and of understanding, and knowledge, to devise in every work,
<sup>4</sup>and to frame works, to labour in gold, and in silver, and in brass, and blue, and
purple, and spun scarlet, <sup>5</sup>and works in stone, and for artificers' work in wood, to work
at all works. <sup>6</sup>And I have appointed him and Aholiab the son of Ahisamach of the tribe
of Dan; and unto every one that is understanding in heart have I given understanding,
and they shall make all things as many as I have appointed thee; <sup>7</sup>the tabernacle of
witness, and the Ark of the Covenant, and the propitiatory that is thereupon, and the
furniture of the tabernacle, <sup>8</sup>and the altars, and the table, and all its furniture, and the
pure lampstand, and all its furniture, and the altar of incense, and the altar of whole
burnt­offering with all its furniture, <sup>9</sup>and the laver and its base, <sup>10</sup>and Aaron's garments
of ministry, and the garments of his sons, to minister unto me in the priest's office,
<sup>11</sup>and the oil of anointing, and the incense of the mixture for the holy place; according to
all that I have commanded thee shall they make them.' 
<sup>12</sup>And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <sup>13</sup>'Do thou also charge the children
of Israel, saying, “Take heed and keep My Sabbaths, for it is a sign with me and among
you throughout your generations, that ye may know that I am the LORD that doth
sanctify you. <sup>14</sup>And ye shall keep the Sabbaths, for this is holy unto the LORD for you.
He that defileth it shall surely be put to death, for whosoever doeth a work therein, that
soul shall be cut off from among his people. <sup>15</sup>Six days shalt thou do works, but in the
seventh day is the Sabbath, a holy rest to the LORD. Whosoever doeth a work in the
seventh day, he shall be put to death. <sup>16</sup>And the children of Israel shall keep the
Sabbaths, to observe them throughout their generations. <sup>17</sup>It is a perpetual covenant
with me and the children of Israel; it is a perpetual sign with me; for in six days the
LORD made the heaven and the earth, and on the seventh day he ceased and rested.” '<sup>8518</sup>And He gave unto Moses, when He had made an end of communing with him
upon mount Sinai, the two tablets of testimony, tablets of stone written with the finger
of God.