---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 32
chapter_order_number: 32
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>32</sup>
And when the people saw that Moses delayed to come down out of the mount,
the people gathered themselves together unto Aaron, and they say unto him, 'Up, and
make us gods which shall go before us; for as for this Moses, the man that brought us
forth out of the land of Egypt, we know not what is become of him'. <sup>2</sup>And Aaron saith
unto them, 'Take off the golden earrings, which are in the ears of your wives, and of
your daughters, and bring them unto me'. <sup>3</sup>And all the people took off the golden
earrings which were in their ears, and brought them unto Aaron. <sup>4</sup>And he received
them at their hand, and fashioned them with a graving tool, and he made them a
molten calf and said, 'These be thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of the
land of Egypt'. <sup>5</sup>And when Aaron saw it, he builded an altar before it, and Aaron made
proclamation, and said, 'Tomorrow is a feast of the LORD'. <sup>6</sup>And he rose up early on the
morrow, and put whole burnt­offerings upon the altar, and offered a peace­offering; and
the people sat down to eat and to drink, and rose up to play. 
<sup>7</sup>And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 'Go quickly, get thee down hence;
for thy people, which thou broughtest out of the land of Egypt, have transgressed.
<sup>8</sup>They have turned aside quickly out of the way which thou commanded; they have
made them a calf, and have worshipped it, and have sacrificed thereunto, and said,
“These be thy gods, O Israel, which have brought thee up out of the land of Egypt”.
<sup>9</sup>And now, suffer Me, and I will be exceeding wroth with them and consume them; <sup>10</sup>and
I will make of thee a great nation.'  <sup>11</sup>And Moses prayed before the LORD, and said,
'LORD, why art Thou enraged with anger against Thy people, which Thou broughtest
forth out of the land of Egypt with great power, and with Thy high arm? <sup>12</sup>Lest at any
time the Egyptians speak, saying, “With evil intent did He bring them out to slay them
in the mountains and to consume them utterly from the earth”, cease from the anger of
Thy wrath, and be merciful to the sin of Thy people, <sup>13</sup>remembering Abraham, and
Isaac, and Jacob, Thy servants, to whom Thou swarest by Thine own self, and spake
unto  them,  saying,  'I  will  greatly  multiply  your  seed  as  the  stars  of  heaven  for
multitude, and all this land that thou hast spoken of, to give it unto their seed, that
they shall possess it for ever”.'  <sup>14</sup>And the LORD was prevailed upon to preserve his
people. 
<sup>15</sup>And Moses turned, and went down from the mount, and the two tablets of
testimony were in his hand, stone tablets written on both their sides; on this side and
on that side were they written. <sup>16</sup>And the tablets were the work of God, and the writing
was the writing of God, written upon the tablets. <sup>17</sup>And when Joshua heard the noise of
the people as they shouted, he saith unto Moses, 'There is a noise of war in the camp'.
<sup>18</sup>And he saith, 'It is not the voice of them that begin in a battle, neither is it the voice of
them that begin a rout; but the voice of them that begin in wine do I hear'. <sup>19</sup>And when
he came nigh unto the camp, he seeth the calf, and the dancing; and waxing hot with
anger Moses cast the two tablets out of his hands, and brake them in pieces beneath
the mount. <sup>20</sup>And he took the calf which they had made, and burnt it with fire, and
ground it small, and strewed it upon the water; and made the children of Israel drink of
it. <sup>21</sup>And Moses said unto Aaron, 'What did this people unto thee, that thou hast
brought great sin upon them?' <sup>22</sup>And Aaron said unto Moses, 'Be not angry, lord, for
thou knowest the impulse of this people, <sup>23</sup>for they say unto me, “Make us gods, which
shall go before us; for as for this Moses, the man that brought us up out of the land of
Egypt, we know not what is become of him”. <sup>24</sup>And I said unto them, “If any one hath<sup>86</sup>golden things, take them off”; and they gave them me, and I cast them into the fire, and
there came out this calf.' <sup>25</sup>And when Moses saw the people, that it was scattered (for
Aaron had scattered them, a thing of rejoicing to their opponents), <sup>26</sup>then Moses stood
in the gate of the camp, and said, 'Who is with the LORD? let him come unto me'. Then
all the sons of Levi gathered themselves together unto him. <sup>27</sup>And he saith unto them,
'Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, “Put every man his sword upon his thigh, and go
through, and return from gate to gate throughout the camp, and slay each man his
brother, and each man his neighbour, and each man the man that is nearest to him” '
<sup>28</sup>And the sons of Levi did according as Moses spake unto them, and there fell of the
people that day about three thousand men. <sup>29</sup>And Moses said unto them, 'Ye have filled
your hands this day to the LORD, even each man upon his son, or upon his brother, for
blessing to be bestowed upon you'.
<sup>30</sup>And it came to pass on the morrow, that Moses said unto them, 'Ye have
sinned a great sin. And now I will go up unto God, that I may make atonement for your
sin'. <sup>31</sup>And Moses returned unto the LORD, and said, 'I pray, O LORD, this people hath
sinned a great sin, and have made them gods of gold. <sup>32</sup>And now, if Thou wilt forgive
them their sin, forgive; but if not, blot me out of Thy book which Thou hast written'.
<sup>33</sup>And the LORD said unto Moses, 'If any man hath sinned against Me, him will I blot
out of My book. <sup>34</sup>And now go, go down, and lead this people unto the place of which I
spake  unto  thee.  Behold,  Mine  angel  shall  go  before  thy  face;  nevertheless  in
whatsoever day when I visit, I will visit their sin upon them.' <sup>35</sup>And the LORD smote the
people for the making of the calf, which Aaron made.