---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 33
chapter_order_number: 33
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>33</sup>
And the LORD said unto Moses, 'Depart; go up hence, thou and thy people
which thou hast brought up out of the land of Egypt, into the land which I sware unto
Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, saying, “Unto thy seed will I give it”. <sup>2</sup>And I will send
at the same time Mine angel before thee, and he shall cast out the Amorite, and the
Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the Gergashite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite, and the
Canaanite. <sup>3</sup>And I will bring thee into a land flowing with milk and honey; for I will not
go up with thee, for thou art a stiff­necked people, lest I consume thee in the way.'
<sup>4</sup>And when the people heard this grievous saying, they mourned in mourning apparel.
<sup>5</sup>For the LORD said unto the children of Israel, 'Ye are a stiff­necked people; take heed
lest I bring upon you another plague, and destroy you. Now then, put off your glorious
apparel and your ornaments from you, and I will shew thee what I will do unto thee.'
<sup>6</sup>So the children of Israel stripped themselves of their ornaments and their array at the
mount of Horeb. 
<sup>7</sup>And Moses took his tabernacle, and pitched it without the camp, afar off from
the camp; and it was called Tabernacle of witness. And it came to pass, that every one
which sought the LORD went out unto the tabernacle, which was without the camp.
<sup>8</sup>And whensoever Moses went into the tabernacle without the camp, all the people stood
every one watching by the doors of his tent. And when Moses departed, they took
notice  until  he  entered  into  the  tabernacle. <sup>9</sup>And  when  Moses  entered  into  the
tabernacle, the pillar of the cloud descended, and stood at the door of the tabernacle,
and talked with Moses. <sup>10</sup>And all the people saw the pillar of the cloud standing by the
door of the tabernacle, and all the people stood, and made obeisance, every man at his
tent door. <sup>11</sup>And the LORD spake unto Moses face to face, as if one should speak unto
his friend, and he returned again into the camp, but his minister Joshua the son of
Nun, a young man, departed not out of the tabernacle. 
<sup>12</sup>And Moses said unto the LORD, 'See, Thou sayest unto me, “Lead up this
people”, but Thou hast not let me know whom Thou wilt send with me; and Thou hast<sup>87</sup>said unto me, “I know thee above all, and thou hast favour in My sight”. <sup>13</sup>If then I have
found favour in Thy sight, reveal Thyself unto me, that I may evidently see Thee, that I
may find favour in Thy sight, and that I may know that this nation is Thy people.' <sup>14</sup>And
He saith, 'I Myself will go before thee, and I will give thee rest'. <sup>15</sup>And he saith unto Him,
'If Thou go not up with us Thyself, lead me not up hence. <sup>16</sup>And wherein shall it be
surely known that I have found favour with Thee, both I and thy people, except only if
Thou go with us? So shall we be glorified, both I and thy people, beyond all the nations
as many as are upon the earth.' <sup>17</sup>And the LORD said unto Moses, 'I will do this thing
also for thee that thou hast spoken; for thou hast found favour before Me, and I know
thee above all others'. <sup>18</sup>And he saith, 'Shew me Thy glory'. <sup>19</sup>And he said, 'I will pass
by before thee in My glory, and I will call by My name, LORD, before thee, and I will
have mercy on whom I will have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I will have
compassion'. <sup>20</sup>And he said, 'Thou shalt not be able to see My face; for there shall no
man see My face, and live'. <sup>21</sup>And the LORD said, 'Behold, there is a place by Me; thou
shalt stand upon the rock, <sup>22</sup>and when My glory passeth by, then I will put thee into a
cleft of the rock, and will cover thee with My hand until I shall have passed by. <sup>23</sup>And I
will take away My hand, and thou shalt see My back parts; but My face shall not appear
unto thee.'