---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 34
chapter_order_number: 34
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>34</sup>
And the LORD said unto Moses, 'Hew thee two tablets of stone like unto the
first, and go up unto Me in the mount; and I will write upon the tablets the words that
were on the first tablets, which thou brakest. <sup>2</sup>And be ready in the morning, and thou
shalt go up unto the mount Sinai, and shalt stand there for Me in the top of the mount.
<sup>3</sup>And let no man come go up with thee, nor be seen in all the mount; neither let the
sheep and oxen feed near that mount.' <sup>4</sup>And he hewed two tablets of stone like unto the
first; and Moses rose up early in the morning, and went up unto the mount Sinai, as
the LORD had appointed him, and Moses took the two tablets of stone. <sup>5</sup>And the LORD
descended in a cloud, and stood beside him there, and he called by the name of the
LORD. <sup>6</sup>And the LORD passed by before his face, and called, 'LORD God, pitying and
merciful, long­suffering, and very compassionate and true, <sup>7</sup>and keeping justice, and
doing mercy for thousands, taking away transgressions and injustice and sins. And he
will not clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children, and upon
the children's children, unto the third and to the fourth generation.' <sup>8</sup>And Moses made
haste, and bowed toward the earth, and worshipped; <sup>9</sup>and he said, 'If I have found grace
in thy sight, let my LORD go with us, for the people is stiff­necked. And thou shalt take
away our sins and our transgressions, and we will be thine.' <sup>10</sup>And the LORD said unto
Moses, 'Behold, I make a covenant with thee; before all thy people I will do glorious
things, such as have not been in all the earth, nor in any nation, and all the people
among which thou art shall see the works of the LORD, that they are wonderful, which I
will do for thee. <sup>11</sup>Do thou take heed to all things whatsoever I command thee. Behold,
I drive out before your face the Amorite, and the Canaanite, and the Perizzite, and the
Hittite, and the Hivite, and the Gergashite, and the Jebusite. <sup>12</sup>Take heed to thyself,
lest thou make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land wherein thou goest, lest it
be unto thee for a stumbling­block in the midst of you. <sup>13</sup>Ye shall destroy their altars,
and break their pillars, and cut down their groves, and the graven images of their gods
shall ye burn with fire. <sup>14</sup>For ye shall not worship strange gods, for the LORD God, a
jealous name, is a jealous God; <sup>15</sup>lest thou make a covenant with the inhabitants of the
land, and they go a­whoring after their gods, and sacrifice unto their gods, and they call
thee, and thou eat of their feasts, <sup>16</sup>and thou take of their daughters unto thy sons, and
thou give of thy daughters unto their sons, and thy daughters go a­whoring after their<sup>88</sup>gods, and thy sons go a­whoring after their gods. <sup>17</sup>And thou shalt make thee no
molten gods. <sup>18</sup>And the feast of unleavened bread shalt thou keep. Seven days shalt
thou eat unleavened bread, as I commanded thee, in the season of the month of new
things , for in the month of new things thou camest out from Egypt. <sup>19</sup>The males are
Mine, every thing that openeth the matrix, the firstlings of a calf, and firstlings of a
sheep. <sup>20</sup>And the firstling of a beast of burden thou shalt redeem with a sheep, and if
thou redeem not him, thou shalt pay a price. Every firstborn of thy sons shalt thou
redeem; thou shalt not appear before Me empty. <sup>21</sup>Six days thou shalt work, but on the
seventh day thou shalt rest; in seedtime and in harvest there shall be rest. <sup>22</sup>And thou
shalt keep unto Me a feast of weeks, the beginning of wheat harvest, and the feast of
ingathering in the middle of the year. <sup>23</sup>Thrice in the year shall every male of thine
appear before the LORD God, the God of Israel. <sup>24</sup>For whensoever I shall cast out the
nations before thee, and enlarge thy borders, no man shall desire thy land, when thou
shalt go up to appear before the LORD thy God thrice in the year. <sup>25</sup>Thou shalt not
slaughter the blood of my sacrifices with leaven, neither shall the sacrifices of the feast
of the Passover lie unto the morning. <sup>26</sup>The first of the first­fruits of thy land thou shalt
bring into the house of the LORD thy God. Thou shalt not seethe a lamb in its mother's
milk.' 
<sup>27</sup>And the LORD said unto Moses, 'Write thou these words for thyself, for upon
these words I have made a covenant with thee, and with Israel'. <sup>28</sup>And Moses was there
before the LORD forty days and forty nights; he did neither eat bread nor drink water,
and he wrote upon the tablets these words of the covenant, the Ten Words. <sup>29</sup>And when
Moses came down from the mount, the two tablets also were in Moses' hands, when he
came down from the mount; and Moses knew not that the appearance of the colour of
his face was glorified when He talked with him. <sup>30</sup>And Aaron and all the children of
Israel saw Moses, and the appearance of the colour of his face was charged with glory;
and they were afraid to come nigh him. <sup>31</sup>And Moses called unto them, and Aaron and
all the rulers of the congregation turned unto him, and Moses talked with them. <sup>32</sup>And
after  these  things  all  the  children  of  Israel  came  unto  him,  and  he  gave  them
commandment in all the things that the LORD had said unto him in the mount of Sinai.
<sup>33</sup>And when he had ceased speaking with them, he put a veil over his face. <sup>34</sup>But
whensoever Moses went in before the LORD to speak with Him, he took the veil off until
he came out, and then he went out and spake unto the children of Israel whatsoever
the LORD commanded him. <sup>35</sup>And the children of Israel saw the face of Moses, that it
was charged with glory, and Moses put a veil over his face until he went in to speak
with Him.