---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 35
chapter_order_number: 35
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>35</sup>
And Moses gathered all the congregation of the children of Israel together and
said unto them, 'These are the words which the LORD hath spoken for to do them.
<sup>2</sup>“Six days shall thou do works, but on the seventh day  there shall be  rest, a holy
Sabbath, a rest for the LORD. Whosoever doeth work therein, let him die. <sup>3</sup>Ye shall
kindle no fire in any of your habitations upon the Sabbath day. I am the LORD.” ' 
<sup>4</sup>And Moses spake unto all the congregation of the children of Israel, saying,
'This is the thing which the LORD hath appointed you, saying, <sup>5</sup>“Take ye from among
you an offering unto the LORD. Every one that engageth in his heart shall bring the
first­fruits unto the LORD; gold, and silver, and brass, <sup>6</sup>blue, and purple, and double
scarlet spun, and fine linen spun, and goats' hair, <sup>7</sup>and rams' skins dyed red, and skins
dyed blue, and wood that doth not rot, <sup>8</sup>and sardius stones, and stones for engraving
for the shoulder­piece, and for the full­length robe. <sup>9</sup>And every man among you that is
of  a  wise  heart,  let  him  come  and  make  all  things  whatsoever  the  LORD  hath<sup>89</sup>commanded; <sup>10</sup>the tabernacle, and the cords, and the coverings, and the rings, and the
bars, and the posts, <sup>11</sup>and the ark of the testimony, and the staves thereof, and the
propitiatory thereof, and the veil, <sup>12</sup>and the curtains of the court, and the posts thereof,
<sup>13</sup>and the emerald stones, <sup>14</sup>and the incense, and the anointing oil, <sup>15</sup>and the table, and
all the furniture thereof, <sup>16</sup>and the lampstand for light, <sup>17</sup>and the altar, and all the
furniture thereof, <sup>18</sup>and the holy garments of Aaron the priest, and the garments in the
which they shall do service, <sup>19</sup>and the garments of priesthood for Aaron's sons, and the
anointing oil and the compound incense.” ' <sup>20</sup>And all the congregation of the children of
Israel went forth from Moses, <sup>21</sup>and each one whose heart prompted them, and to whom
it seemed good in their mind, brought an offering. And they brought an offering unto
the LORD for all the works of the tabernacle of witness, and for all the service thereof,
and for all the garments of the sanctuary. <sup>22</sup>And the men brought from their wives;
even every one to whom it seemed good in his mind brought seals, and earrings, and
finger rings, and necklaces, and bracelets, every thing of gold, and all as many as
brought offerings of gold unto the LORD. <sup>23</sup>And with whomsoever fine linen was found
brought skins dyed blue, and rams' skins dyed red. <sup>24</sup>And every one that did offer an
offering brought silver and brass, the offerings unto the LORD, and they with whom was
found wood that doth not rot brought offerings for all the work of the preparation.
<sup>25</sup>And every woman skilled in her heart to spin with her hands brought spun things; the
blue, and the purple, and the scarlet, and the fine linen. <sup>26</sup>And all the women to whom
it seemed good in their heart in wisdom spun the goats' hair. <sup>27</sup>And the rulers brought
the emerald stones, and the stones for setting in the shoulder­piece, and in the oracle,
<sup>28</sup>and the compounds, both for the anointing oil, and for the composition of the incense.
<sup>29</sup>And every man and woman whose mind did incline them to come in and do all the
works, as many as the LORD appointed them to do by Moses, the children of Israel
brought an offering unto the LORD.
<sup>30</sup>And Moses said unto the children of Israel, 'Behold, God hath called by name
Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah, <sup>31</sup>and hath filled him with a
divine spirit of wisdom and understanding and knowledge of all things, <sup>32</sup>to labour
skilfully in all works of cunning workmanship, to work the gold, and the silver, and the
brass, <sup>33</sup>and to work in stone, and to fashion the wood, and to work in every work of
wisdom. <sup>34</sup>And he gave improvement in his understanding both to him and to Aholiab,
the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan. <sup>35</sup>And them filled he with wisdom and
understanding and perception, to understand to make all the works of the sanctuary,
and to weave with the scarlet, and with the linen, to make every work of curious
workmanship and embroidery.'