---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 36
chapter_order_number: 36
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>36</sup>
Then wrought Bezalel, and Eliab, and every one that was wise in understanding,
unto whom was given wisdom and knowledge to understand how to do all the works
that were according to the holy offices, according to all that the LORD had appointed.
<sup>2</sup>And Moses called Bezalel, and Eliab, and all that had wisdom, unto whom the LORD
had given knowledge in the heart, and all who were freely willing to come forward to the
works, to perform them. <sup>3</sup>And they received from Moses all the offerings, which the
children of Israel had brought, for the works of the sanctuary to make them withal, and
they continued to receive the gifts that were brought, from them that brought them in
the morning. <sup>4</sup>And all the wise men that wrought the works of the sanctuary came
every man, each according to his own work which they made, <sup>5</sup>and they said unto
Moses, 'The people bring much more than the works which the LORD appointed them
to do'. <sup>6</sup>And Moses gave commandment, and proclaimed in the camp, saying, 'Let
neither man nor woman work any more for the first­fruits of the sanctuary'. And the<sup>90</sup>people were restrained from bringing more. <sup>7</sup>And the works were sufficient for the
furniture to make it, and there were left some beside. 
<sup>8</sup>And every wise­hearted man among them that wrought made (MT <sup>39</sup>:<sup>1</sup>) the
garments of the holy places that belonged to Aaron the priest, as the LORD commanded
Moses. <sup>9</sup>And they made the shoulder­piece of gold, blue, and purple, and spun scarlet,
and fine twined linen. <sup>10</sup>And the plates of gold were cut as wires, to work it in the blue
and in the purple and in the spun scarlet and in the fine twined linen. They made it a
woven work, <sup>11</sup>shoulder­pieces coupled together from both sides, a work that was woven
by mutual twisting of the parts into one another. <sup>12</sup>They made it according to the
making of it, of gold, and blue, and purple, and spun red, and the fine twined linen, as
the LORD commanded Moses. <sup>13</sup>And they wrought the two emerald stones, clasped
together and set in gold, graven and cut after the cutting of a seal, with the names of
the children of Israel. <sup>14</sup>And he put them on the shoulder­pieces of the ephod, stones of
memorial of the children of Israel, as the LORD appointed Moses.
<sup>15</sup>And they made the oracle, a work woven with embroidery, according to the
work of the ephod, of gold, and blue, and purple, and spun red, and fine twined linen.
<sup>16</sup>They made the oracle foursquare and double, the length of a span, and the breadth of
a span, double. <sup>17</sup>And there was interwoven with it a woven work set with stones of four
rows, a row of stones. The first row was a sardius, a topaz, and an emerald. <sup>18</sup>And the
second row  was a carbuncle, a sapphire, and a jasper. <sup>19</sup>And the third row  was a
ligure, an agate, and an amethyst. <sup>20</sup>And the fourth row was a chrysolite, a beryl, and
an onyx, set round about with gold, and bound with gold. <sup>21</sup>And the stones were twelve,
according to the names of the children of Israel, graven according to their names like
unto seals, each according to his own name for the twelve tribes. <sup>22</sup>And they made
upon the oracle turned wreaths, wreathen work of pure gold, <sup>23</sup>and they made two
circlets of gold, and two golden rings. <sup>24</sup>And they put the two rings of gold on both the
corners of the oracle, <sup>25</sup>and they put the wreaths of gold upon the rings, upon both
sides of the oracle, and the two wreaths into the two couplings. <sup>26</sup>And they put them on
the two circlets, and they put them upon the shoulders of the shoulder­piece before it.
<sup>27</sup>And they made the two rings of gold, and put them on the two wings at the extremity
of the oracle, and upon the top of the hinder part of the shoulder­piece within. <sup>28</sup>And
they made two golden rings, and put them on both the shoulders of the shoulder­piece
beneath it in front by the coupling above the joining of the shoulder­piece. <sup>29</sup>And he did
fasten the oracle by the rings that were thereon unto the rings of the shoulder­piece,
the which were fastened with the blue, being held together with woven work of the
shoulder­piece, that the oracle should not be loosed from the shoulder­piece, as the
LORD commanded Moses. 
<sup>30</sup>And they made the tunic under the shoulder­piece of woven work all of blue.
<sup>31</sup>And the opening of the tunic in the midst was woven closely together, and the opening
had a fringe round about, that it might not be rent. <sup>32</sup>And they made upon the border
of the tunic below pomegranates, as of a flowering pomegranate tree, of blue and purple
and spun scarlet and fine twined linen. <sup>33</sup>And they made bells of gold, and put the bells
on  the  border  round  about  between  the  pomegranates, <sup>34</sup>a  bell  of  gold  and  a
pomegranate upon the border of the tunic round about for the ministration, as the
LORD commanded Moses. <sup>35</sup>And they made vestments of fine linen, a woven work, for
Aaron and his sons, <sup>36</sup>and the headtires of fine linen, and the headtire of fine linen, and
the breeches of fine twined linen, <sup>37</sup>and their girdles of fine twined linen, and blue, and
purple,  and  scarlet  spun,  the  work  of  an  embroiderer,  according  as  the  LORD
commanded  Moses. <sup>38</sup>And  they  made  the  golden  plate,  a  dedicated  thing  of  the
sanctuary, of pure gold, <sup>39</sup>and he wrote upon it graven letters as of a seal, HOLINESS
TO THE LORD. <sup>40</sup>And they put it upon the border of blue, that it should be upon the
headtire above, as the LORD commanded Moses.