---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 37
chapter_order_number: 37
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---
<sup>91</sup>CHAPTER <sup>37</sup> (MT <sup>36</sup>:<sup>8</sup>)
And they made ten curtains for the tabernacle. <sup>2</sup>The length of one curtain was of
twenty and eight cubits, (the same was to all), and the breadth of one curtain was of
four cubits. <sup>3</sup>And they made the veil of blue, and purple, and spun scarlet, and fine
twined linen, the woven work with cherubims. <sup>4</sup>And they put it upon four posts of wood
that doth not rot, overlaid with gold, and their capitals were gold, and their four sockets
were silver. <sup>5</sup>And they made the veil of the door of the tabernacle of witness of blue, and
purple, and spun scarlet, and fine twined linen, woven work with cherubims, <sup>6</sup>and their
posts five, and the rings, and they gilded their capitals and their clasps with gold, and
they had five sockets of brass. 
(MT <sup>38</sup>:<sup>9</sup>) <sup>7</sup>And they made the court. On the south side southward the
curtains of the court were of fine twined linen, an hundred every way, <sup>8</sup>and their posts
twenty, and their sockets twenty, <sup>9</sup>and on the north side the hangings were an hundred
every way, and their posts twenty, and their sockets twenty. <sup>10</sup>And on the side toward
the sea were curtains of fifty cubits; their posts ten, and their sockets ten. <sup>11</sup>And the
side toward the east was fifty cubits; there were curtains of fifteen cubits to the back
side, <sup>12</sup>and their pillars were three, and their sockets three. <sup>13</sup>And at the second back
on this side and on that, by the gate of the court, there were curtains of fifteen cubits;
their pillars three, and their sockets three; <sup>14</sup>all the curtains of the tabernacle were of
fine twined linen. <sup>15</sup>And the sockets of their pillars were of brass, and their hooks of
silver, and their capitals were overlaid with silver; and all the posts of the court were
overlaid with silver, <sup>16</sup>and the veil of the gate of the court, the work of an embroiderer,
was of blue, and purple, and spun scarlet, and fine twined linen. The length of it was
twenty cubits, and the height and the breadth of five cubits, made equal to the curtains
of the court. <sup>17</sup>And their pillars were four, and their sockets were four, of brass, and
their hooks were of silver, and their capitals were overlaid with silver. <sup>18</sup>And all the pins
of the court round about were of brass, and they were overlaid with silver. 
<sup>19</sup>And this was the appointment of the tabernacle of witness, according as it
was appointed unto Moses, that the public service should belong to the Hivites through
Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest. <sup>20</sup>And Bezalel the son of Uri, of the tribe of Judah,
did as the LORD commanded Moses. <sup>21</sup>And Aholiab the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe
of Dan, was there , who was chief artificer in the woven works and needle works and
embroideries, in weaving with the scarlet and fine linen.