---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 38
chapter_order_number: 38
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>38</sup> (MT <sup>37</sup>:<sup>1</sup>)
And Bezalel made the ark. <sup>2</sup>And he overlaid it with pure gold within and
without. <sup>3</sup>And he cast for it four rings of gold, even two rings of the one side, and two on
the second side; <sup>4</sup>wide for the staves, that men should bear the ark with them. <sup>5</sup>And he
made the propitiatory over the ark of pure gold, <sup>6</sup>and the two cherubims of gold, <sup>7</sup>one
cherub on the one end of the propitiatory, and another cherub on the on the second
end of the propitiatory, <sup>8</sup>overshadowing the propitiatory with their wings. 
<sup>9</sup>And he made the table of presentation of pure gold, <sup>10</sup>and he cast for it four
rings, even two upon the one side, and two upon the second side, broad, that men
should carry it with the staves in them. <sup>11</sup>And he made the staves of the ark and of the
table, and gilded them with gold. <sup>12</sup>And he made the furniture of the table, both the
dishes, and the censers, and the cups, and the bowls, wherewith he should offer drink
offerings, of gold. 
<sup>13</sup>And he made the lampstand, which giveth light, of gold, <sup>14</sup>the stem solid and
the branches from both sides thereof, <sup>15</sup>and blossoms proceeding from the branches<sup>92</sup>thereof; three on this side, and three on that, made equal to each other. <sup>16</sup>And their
lamps, which are on the ends, buds like almonds from them, and sockets proceeding
from them, that the lamps might be upon them, and the seventh socket on the top of
lampstand, on the summit above, all of solid gold. <sup>17</sup>And upon the lampstand; seven
golden lamps, and the snuffers thereof, gold, and the oil funnels thereof, gold. 
(MT <sup>36</sup>:<sup>34</sup>­<sup>6</sup>) <sup>18</sup>He overlaid the posts, and cast for each post rings of gold, and
overlaid the bars with gold, and made the hooks of gold. <sup>19</sup>He made also the rings of the
tabernacle of gold, and the rings of the court, and the rings for drawing out the veil
above of brass. <sup>20</sup>He cast the silver capitals of the tabernacle, and the brazen capitals of
the door of the tabernacle, and the gate of the court. And he made silver hooks for the
posts;  he  overlaid  them  with  silver  upon  the  posts. <sup>21</sup>He  made  the  pins  of  the
tabernacle, and the pins of the court, of brass. <sup>22</sup>He made the brazen altar of the brazen
censers, which pertained unto the men which were in sedition with the gathering of
Korah. <sup>23</sup>He made all the vessels of the altar, and the grate thereof, and the base
thereof, and the bowls thereof, and the brazen fleshhooks. <sup>24</sup>He made an appendage for
the altar of network under the grate, beneath it even unto the midst thereof. And to it
he fastened four brazen rings on the four parts of the appendage of the altar, wide
enough for the bars to bear the altar with them. <sup>25</sup>He made the holy oil of anointing,
and the composition of the incense, the pure work of the perfumer. <sup>26</sup>He made the
brazen laver, and the brazen base thereof, of the mirrors of the women that fasted,
which fasted by the doors of the tabernacle of witness, in the day wherein he set it up.
<sup>27</sup>And he made the laver, that of it Moses and Aaron and his sons might wash their
hands and their feet. When they went into the tabernacle of witness, or whensoever
they advanced unto the altar to do service, they washed of it, as the LORD commanded
Moses.