---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 39
chapter_order_number: 39
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>39</sup> (MT <sup>38</sup>:<sup>24</sup>)
All the gold that was occupied for the works, according to all the work of the
holy things, was of the gold of the first­fruits, even twenty and nine talents, and seven
hundred and twenty shekels, according to the holy shekel. <sup>2</sup>And the offering of silver
from the men that were numbered of the congregation was an hundred talents, and a
thousand seven hundred and threescore and fifteen shekels, one drachma apiece, even
the half shekel, according to the holy shekel, for <sup>3</sup>every one that passed the survey, from
twenty years old and upward, to the number of six hundred thousand, and three
thousand five hundred and fifty. <sup>4</sup>And the hundred talents of silver that went to the
casting of the hundred capitals of the tabernacle, and to the capitals of the veil, <sup>5</sup>an
hundred capitals to the hundred talents, a talent to a capital. <sup>6</sup>And the thousand seven
hundred seventy and five shekels he made into hooks for the pillars, and overlaid their
capitals, and adorned them. <sup>7</sup>And the brass of the offering was seventy talents, and a
thousand five hundred shekels, <sup>8</sup>and they made of it the bases of the door of the
tabernacle of witness <sup>9</sup>and the bases of the court round about, and the bases of the gate
of the court, and the pins of the tabernacle, and the pins of the court round about,
<sup>10</sup>and the brazen appendage of the altar, and all the vessels of the altar, and all the
instruments of the tabernacle of witness. <sup>11</sup>And the children of Israel did as the LORD
commanded Moses, so did they. 
<sup>12</sup>And of the gold that remained of the offering made they vessels, wherewith to
minister unto the LORD. <sup>13</sup>And the blue that was left, and the purple, and the scarlet,
made they into garments of ministry for Aaron, that he should minister with them in
the sanctuary. 
<sup>14</sup>And they brought the garments unto Moses, and the tabernacle, and the
furniture, thereof and its bases, and its bars, and the posts, <sup>15</sup>and the Ark of the<sup>93</sup>Covenant, and the bearers thereof, and the altar, and all its furniture. <sup>16</sup>And they made
the oil of anointing and the incense of composition, and the pure lampstand, <sup>17</sup>and the
lamps thereof, lamps for burning, and oil for the light, <sup>18</sup>and the table of presentation,
and all the furniture thereof, and the loaves of presentation upon it, <sup>19</sup>and the garments
of the sanctuary, which pertain to Aaron, <sup>20</sup>and the curtains of the court, and the posts,
and the veil of the door of the tabernacle, and the gate of the court, <sup>21</sup>and all the vessels
of the tabernacle, and all the instruments thereof for the works of the tabernacle of
witness. <sup>22</sup>Whatsoever things the LORD appointed Moses, so the children of Israel made
all the furniture. <sup>23</sup>And Moses did see all the works, and they had done them all as the
LORD commanded Moses, even so had they made them; and Moses blessed them.