---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 40
chapter_order_number: 40
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 40
book_short_name: Exodus
book_link_name: Exodus
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>40</sup>
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <sup>2</sup>'On the first day of the first month, at
the new moon, shalt thou set up the tabernacle of witness. <sup>3</sup>And thou shalt put therein
the ark of the testimony, and cover the ark with the veil. <sup>4</sup>And thou shalt bring in the
table, and set forth that which is to be set forth upon it, and thou shalt bring in the
lampstand, and place thereon the lamps thereof. <sup>5</sup>And thou shalt set the altar of gold to
burn incense before the ark, and thou shalt put a covering of a veil upon the door of the
tabernacle of witness. <sup>6</sup>And thou shalt set the altar of burnt offerings by the doors of
the tabernacle of witness, and thou shalt set up the tabernacle round about, and thou
shalt hallow all that belongeth unto it round about. <sup>7</sup>And thou shalt take the anointing
oil, and anoint the tabernacle and all that is therein, and shalt hallow it and all the
furniture thereof; and it shall be holy. <sup>8</sup>And thou shalt anoint the altar of burnt
offerings, and all its furniture, <sup>9</sup>and sanctify the altar; and the altar shall be most holy.
<sup>10</sup>And thou shalt bring Aaron and his sons unto the door of the tabernacle of witness,
and wash them with water. <sup>11</sup>And thou shalt put upon Aaron the holy garments, and
anoint him, and sanctify him; and he shall minister unto Me in the priest's office. <sup>12</sup>And
thou shalt bring up his sons, and put garments upon them. <sup>13</sup>And thou shalt anoint
them, as thou didst anoint their father, and they shall minister unto Me in the priests'
office. And it shall be that they shall have an everlasting anointing of priesthood
throughout their generations.'  <sup>14</sup>And Moses did all whatsoever the LORD commanded
him, so did he. 
<sup>15</sup>And it came to pass in the first month in the second year since the children of
Israel went forth out of Egypt, at the new moon, that the tabernacle was reared up.
<sup>16</sup>And Moses reared up the tabernacle, and put on the capitals, and put the bars into
their places, and set up the posts. <sup>17</sup>And he stretched out the curtains over the
tabernacle and put the veil of the tabernacle over it, as the LORD commanded Moses.
<sup>18</sup>And he took the testimonies, and put them into the ark, and put the staves under the
ark. <sup>19</sup>And he brought the ark into the tabernacle, and put on the covering of the veil,
and covered the ark of the testimony, as the LORD commanded Moses. <sup>20</sup>And he put
the  table  in  the  tabernacle  of  witness  on  the  north  side  outside  the  veil  of  the
tabernacle. <sup>21</sup>And he set the loaves of presentation upon it before the LORD, as the
LORD commanded Moses. <sup>22</sup>And he put the lampstand in the tabernacle of witness,
upon the side of the tabernacle southward. <sup>23</sup>And he set the lamps thereof upon it
before the LORD, as the LORD had commanded Moses. <sup>24</sup>And he put the golden altar in
the tabernacle of witness before the veil, <sup>25</sup>and he burned incense of the mixture
thereon, as the LORD commanded Moses. <sup>26</sup>And he put the altar of burnt offerings by
the doors of the tabernacle. <sup>27</sup>And he set up the court round about the tabernacle of
witness and the altar, and Moses finished all the works. 
<sup>28</sup>And  the  cloud  covered  the  tabernacle  of  witness,  and  the  tabernacle  of
witness was filled with the glory of the LORD. <sup>29</sup>And Moses was not able to enter into<sup>94</sup>the tabernacle of witness, because the cloud overshadowed it, and the tabernacle was
filled with the glory of the LORD. <sup>30</sup>Now whensoever the cloud went up from the
tabernacle, the children of Israel brake camp with their household stuff. <sup>31</sup>And if the
cloud went not up from the tabernacle, they prepared not to break camp till the day
that the cloud went up. <sup>32</sup>For the cloud was over the tabernacle by day, and fire was
upon it by night, in the sight of all Israel in all their journeyings. 