---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 28
chapter_order_number: 28
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

And Isaac called Jacob, and blessed him, and charged him, saying, 'Thou shalt
not take a wife of the daughters of the Canaanites. <sup>2</sup>Arise, and depart quickly into
Mesopotamia to the house of Bethuel thy mother's father, and take thee a wife from
thence of the daughters of Laban thy mother's brother. <sup>3</sup>And my God bless thee, and
increase thee, and multiply thee, and thou shalt become a gathering of nations; <sup>4</sup>and
give thee the blessing of Abraham my father to thee, and to thy seed after thee, to
inherit the land of thy sojourning, which God gave unto Abraham.'  <sup>5</sup>And Isaac sent
away Jacob; and he went into Mesopotamia unto Laban, son of Bethuel the Syrian, the
brother of Rebekah, Jacob's and Esau's mother.
<sup>6</sup>And  Esau  saw  that  Isaac  had  blessed  Jacob,  and  that  he  went  away  to
Mesopotamia, to take him a wife from thence; and that as he blessed him he gave him a
charge, saying, 'Thou shalt not take a wife of the daughters of Canaan'; <sup>7</sup>and that Jacob
hearkened unto his father and his mother, and was gone to Mesopotamia of Syria.
<sup>8</sup>And Esau saw that the daughters of Canaan were evil in the sight of Isaac his father,
<sup>9</sup>and Esau went unto Ishmael, and took to wife Mahaleth the daughter of Ismael,
Abraham's son, the sister of Nebajoth, further to his other wives. 
<sup>10</sup>And Jacob went out from the Well of the Oath, and went into Haran. <sup>11</sup>And he
lighted upon a certain place, and lay down there, because the sun was set. And he took
one of the stones of the place, and put it at his head, and lay down in that place to
sleep. <sup>12</sup>And he dreamed, and behold, a ladder set up on the earth, whose top reached
to Heaven; and the angels of God ascended and descended on it. <sup>13</sup>And the LORD was
established upon it, and said, 'I am the God of thy father Abraham, and the God of
Isaac. Fear not; the land whereon thou liest, to thee will I give it and to thy seed. <sup>14</sup>And
thy seed shall be as the sand of the earth, and it shall spread abroad to the sea, and to
the south, and to the north, and to the east; and in thee and in thy seed shall all the
tribes of the earth be blessed. <sup>15</sup>And behold, I am with thee, keeping thee in every way
whither thou shalt go, and will bring thee again into this land; for I will not leave thee,
until I have done all that which I have spoken to thee of.' <sup>16</sup>And Jacob awaked out of
his sleep, and he said, 'The LORD is in this place, and I knew it not'. <sup>17</sup>And he was
afraid, and said, 'How dreadful is this place! this is none other than the house of God,
and this is the gate of Heaven'. <sup>18</sup>And Jacob rose up early in the morning, and took the
stone that he had put under his head, and set it up for a pillar, and poured oil upon the
top of it. <sup>19</sup>And he called the name of that place the House of God; and the name of the
city was called Luz before. <sup>20</sup>And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, “If the LORD God be with
me, and will keep me in this journey that I go, and will give me bread to eat and raiment
to put on, <sup>21</sup>and bring me back to my father's house in safety, then shall the LORD be
my God. <sup>22</sup>And this stone, which I have set up for a pillar, shall be a house of God to
me; and of all that thou shalt give me I will tithe a tenth unto Thee.'