---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 31
chapter_order_number: 31
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---
CHAPTER <sup>31</sup>
And Jacob heard the words of Laban's sons saying, 'Jacob hath taken away all
that was our father's, and of that which was our father's hath he gotten all this glory'.
<sup>2</sup>And Jacob beheld the countenance of Laban, and behold, it was not toward him as
yesterday and three days before. <sup>3</sup>And the LORD said unto Jacob, 'Return unto the
land of thy father, and to thy kindred, and I will be with thee'. <sup>4</sup>And Jacob sent and
called Leah and Rachel to the field where the flocks were. <sup>5</sup>And he said unto them, 'I
see your father's countenance, that it is not toward me as yesterday and three days
before; but the God of my father hath been with me. <sup>6</sup>And ye too know that with all my
power I have served your father. <sup>7</sup>But your father hath deceived me, and changed my
wages for the ten lambs; but God gave him not leave to hurt me. <sup>8</sup>If he said thus, “The
speckled shall be thy reward”, then all the cattle bare speckled; and if he said, “The
white shall be thy hire”, then all the cattle bare white. <sup>9</sup>Thus God hath taken away all
the cattle of your father, and given them to me. <sup>10</sup>And it came to pass, when the cattle
conceived, and were with young, that I beheld with mine eyes in sleep; and behold, the
he­goats and the rams, which leaped upon the sheep and the she­goats, were speckled,
and spotted, and spotted with ash­coloured spots. <sup>11</sup>And the angel of God said unto me
in sleep, “Jacob”; and I said, “What is it?” <sup>12</sup>And he said, “Look up with thine eyes, and
behold the he­goats and the rams leaping upon the sheep, and the she­goats speckled
and spotted with ash­coloured spots; for I have seen all that Laban doeth unto thee. <sup>13</sup>I
am God which appeared unto thee in the place of God, where thou anointedst a pillar
unto me, and thou vowedst there a vow unto me. Now therefore arise, and get thee out
from this land, and return unto the land of thy birth, and I will be with thee.” ' <sup>14</sup>And
Rachel and Leah answered, and said unto him, 'Is there not yet a portion or inheritance
for us in our father's house? <sup>15</sup>Are we not counted of him strangers? For he hath sold
us, and hath quite devoured our money. <sup>16</sup>All the riches and the glory which God hath
taken from our father, it shall be ours, and our children's. Now then, whatsoever God
hath said unto thee, do.'
<sup>17</sup>And Jacob rose up, and took his wives, and his children, upon the camels;
<sup>18</sup>and  he  carried  away  all  his  goods  and  all  his  store,  which  he  had  gotten  in
Mesopotamia, and all that pertained unto him, for to go to Isaac his father in the land of
Canaan. <sup>19</sup>And Laban went to shear his sheep, and Rachel stole the images that were
her father's. <sup>20</sup>And Jacob hid this from Laban the Syrian, to tell him not that he ran<sup>31</sup>away. <sup>21</sup>So he fled with all that he had, and passed over the river, and set out toward
the mount Gilead. <sup>22</sup>But it was told Laban the Syrian on the third day that Jacob was
fled; <sup>23</sup>and he took his brethren with him, and pursued after him seven days' journey,
and they overtook him in the mount Gilead. <sup>24</sup>And God came to Laban the Syrian in
sleep by night, and said unto him, 'Take heed to thyself that thou speak not at any time
evil unto Jacob'. <sup>25</sup>Then Laban overtook Jacob; and Jacob had pitched his tent in the
mount, and Laban set his brethren in the mount of Gilead. <sup>26</sup>And Laban said to Jacob,
'What hast thou done?  Wherefore didst thou flee away unawares, and rob me, and
spoil me, and carry away my daughters as captives taken with the sword? <sup>27</sup>And if thou
hadst told me, I would have sent thee away with mirth, and with songs, and with
timbrel, and with harp. <sup>28</sup>And I was not counted worthy to kiss my children and my
daughters. Now then, thou hast done foolishly. <sup>29</sup>And now my hand hath power to do
thee hurt, but the God of thy father spake unto me yesterday saying, “Take thou heed
that thou speak not evil to Jacob”. <sup>30</sup>Now therefore, go thy way, because thou sore
longedst to depart unto thy father's house; yet wherefore hast thou stolen my gods?'
<sup>31</sup>And Jacob answered and said to Laban, 'Because I was afraid, for I said, “Lest at any
time thou shouldest take away thy daughters from me, and all that is mine” '. <sup>32</sup>And
Jacob said, 'With whomsoever thou findest thy gods, he shall not live in the presence of
our brethren. Discern thou what is thine with me, and take it.' And he discerned
nothing with him, but Jacob knew not that Rachel his wife had stolen them. <sup>33</sup>And
Laban went and searched in Leah's dwelling, and he found them not, and went out of
Leah's dwelling, and searched in Jacob's house, and in the two maidservants' dwelling,
and found them not. Then went he also into Rachel's dwelling. <sup>34</sup>And Rachel had taken
the images, and cast them among the camel's furniture, and sat upon them. <sup>35</sup>And she
said to her father, 'Take it not ill, my lord; I cannot rise up before thee, for it is with me
according to the manner of women'. And Laban searched in all the house, and found
not the images. <sup>36</sup>And Jacob was wroth and chided with Laban; and Jacob answered
and said to Laban, “What is my injustice, and what is my sin, that thou hast so hotly
pursued after me, <sup>37</sup>and that thou hast searched all my household stuff? What hast
thou found of thy household stuff? Set it here before thy brethren and my brethren,
and let them judge betwixt us both. <sup>38</sup>These twenty years of mine have I been with thee.
Thy sheep and thy she­goats have not failed in bearing; the rams of thy cattle have I not
eaten. <sup>39</sup>That which was taken of beasts, I brought not unto thee; of myself made I good
the thefts of the day, and the thefts of the night. <sup>40</sup>In the day I was parched with heat,
and chilled with frost by night, and my sleep departed from mine eyes. <sup>41</sup>These twenty
years of mine have I been in thy house. I served thee fourteen years for thy two
daughters, and six years among thy sheep, and thou didst falsely rate my wages for ten
lambs. <sup>42</sup>Except the God of my father Abraham, and the fear of Isaac, had been with
me, thou hadst sent me away now empty. God hath seen my humiliation, and the
labour of my hands, and rebuked thee yesterday.' <sup>43</sup>And Laban answered and said unto
Jacob, 'The daughters are my daughters, and the sons are my sons, and the cattle are
my cattle, and all things that thou seest are mine and my daughters. What shall I do
this day unto them, or unto their children, which they have borne?  <sup>44</sup>Now therefore
come thou, let me make a covenant I and thou, and it shall be for a witness between me
and thee.'  And he said unto him, 'Behold, there is no man with us; behold, God is
witness betwixt me and thee'. <sup>45</sup>And Jacob took a stone and set it up for a pillar. <sup>46</sup>And
Jacob said unto his brethren, 'Gather stones', and they gathered stones and made a
heap, and they did eat there upon the heap. <sup>47</sup>And Laban said unto him, 'This heap
witnesseth betwixt me and thee this day'. <sup>48</sup>And Laban called it The Heap of Testimony,
and Jacob called it, The Witness Heap. And Laban said unto Jacob, 'Behold, this heap
and the pillar, which I have set betwixt me and thee. This heap witnesseth, and this
pillar witnesseth'. There was the name thereof called The Heap Witnesseth. <sup>49</sup>And the
vision of which he said, “Let God look to it between me and thee, for when we depart the<sup>32</sup>one from the other, <sup>50</sup>if thou shalt humble my daughters, if thou shalt take wives beside
my daughters, see no man is with us looking on; God witnesseth betwixt me and thee.”
<sup>51</sup>And Laban said unto Jacob, “Behold, this heap and this pillar are witness. <sup>52</sup>For if I
pass not over to thee, I to thee, neither shalt thou pass over beyond this heap and this
pillar unto me for mischief. <sup>53</sup>The God of Abraham and the God of Nahor judge betwixt
us.” And Jacob sware by the fear of his father Isaac. <sup>54</sup>And he offered sacrifice upon
the mount, and called his brethren, and they did eat and drink and slept in the mount.
<sup>55</sup>And in the morning Laban rose up, and kissed his sons and his daughters, and
blessed them, and Laban turned back and departed unto his place.