---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 32
chapter_order_number: 32
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>32</sup>
And Jacob departed on his own way, and he looked up and saw the host of God
encamped, and the angels of God met him. <sup>2</sup>And when Jacob saw them he said, 'This is
God's camp'; and he called the name of that place, Encampments. 
<sup>3</sup>And Jacob sent messengers before him to Esau his brother in the land of Seir,
unto the country of Edom. <sup>4</sup>And he commanded them saying, 'Thus shall ye speak unto
my lord Esau; “Thy servant Jacob saith thus; 'I have sojourned with Laban and tarried
until now. <sup>5</sup>And there were born to me cattle, and asses, and sheep, and menservants,
and womenservants; and I have sent to tell my lord Esau, that thy servant may find
grace in thy sight.' ” ' <sup>6</sup>And the messengers returned to Jacob saying, 'We came to thy
brother Esau, and lo, he cometh to meet thee, and four hundred men with him'. <sup>7</sup>And
Jacob was greatly afraid and perplexed. And he divided the people that were with him,
and the kine and the camels and the sheep, into two camps. <sup>8</sup>And Jacob said, 'If Esau
come to the one camp and smite it, the other camp shall be in safety'. <sup>9</sup>And Jacob said,
'O God of my father Abraham, and God of my father Isaac, LORD, Thou art He which
saidst unto me, “Haste ye unto the land of thy birth, and I will do thee good”. <sup>10</sup>Let
there be to me a sufficiency of all the righteousness, and of all the truth, which Thou
hast wrought with Thy servant; for with this my staff I passed over this Jordan, and
now I am become two camps. <sup>11</sup>Deliver me from the hand of my brother, from the hand
of Esau, for I fear him, lest he will come and smite me, and the mother with the
children. <sup>12</sup>But thou saidst, “I will do thee good, and will make thy seed as the sand of
the sea, which shall not be numbered for multitude”. ' <sup>13</sup>And he slept there that night,
and took of the gifts which he carried, and sent out to Esau his brother <sup>14</sup>two hundred
she­goats, twenty he­goats, two hundred sheep, twenty rams, <sup>15</sup>milch camels and their
colts thirty, forty kine, ten bulls, twenty asses and ten foals. <sup>16</sup>And he gave them unto
his servants, a drove apart. And he said unto his servants, 'Pass over before me, and
put a space betwixt drove and drove'. <sup>17</sup>And he commanded the first, saying, 'If Esau
my brother meet thee, and ask thee, saying, “Who art thou?” and, “Whither wouldest
thou go?” and, “Whose are these that go before thee?” <sup>18</sup>then thou shalt say, “Thy
servant Jacob's; he hath sent presents unto my lord Esau, and behold, he is behind
us”'. <sup>19</sup>And he commanded the first and the second and the third, and all that went
before him after these flocks, saying, 'According to this word shall ye speak unto Esau
when ye find him. <sup>20</sup>And ye shall say, “Behold, thy servant Jacob cometh after us”.'
For he said, 'I will appease his face with the gifts that go before his face, and afterward I
will see his face; for peradventure he will accept my face'. <sup>21</sup>So went the presents on
before him, and himself lodged that night in the camp. 
<sup>22</sup>And  he  rose  up  in  that  night,  and  took  his  two  wives,  and  his  two
maidservants, and his eleven children, and passed over the ford Jabbok. <sup>23</sup>And he took
them, and passed over the torrent, and brought over all that was his. <sup>24</sup>And Jacob was
left alone; and there wrestled a man with him until the morning. <sup>25</sup>And he saw that he
prevailed not against Him, and He touched the flat part of his thigh; and the flat part of<sup>33</sup>Jacob's thigh was numbed in his wrestling with Him. <sup>26</sup>And He said unto him, 'Let me
go, for the day is come up'; but he said, 'I will not let Thee go, except thou bless me'.
<sup>27</sup>And he said unto him, 'What is thy name?' And he answered, 'Jacob'. <sup>28</sup>And He said
unto him, 'Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel shall be thy name; for
thou hast prevailed with God, and shalt be mighty with men.' <sup>29</sup>And Jacob asked him,
and said, 'What is Thy name?' And he said, 'Wherefore dost thou ask after My name?'
And He blessed him there. <sup>30</sup>And Jacob called the name of that place, Face of God, 'For
I have seen God face to face, and my life was preserved'. <sup>31</sup>And the sun rose upon him
when he passed by the Face of God, and he halted upon his thigh. <sup>32</sup>Therefore the sons
of Israel will by no means eat of the sinew which was numbed, which is upon the broad
part of the thigh unto this day; because he touched the broad part of Jacob's thigh,
even the sinew that was numb.