---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 33
chapter_order_number: 33
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>33</sup>
And Jacob looked up with his eyes, and looked; and behold, Esau his brother
coming, and with him four hundred men. And Jacob divided the children unto Leah,
and unto Rachel, and unto the two handmaids. <sup>2</sup>And he put the handmaids and their
children foremost, and Leah and her children after, and Rachel and Joseph hindmost.
<sup>3</sup>But he advanced himself before them, and bowed himself to the ground seven times,
until he came near to his brother. <sup>4</sup>And Esau ran on to meet him, and embraced him,
and fell on his neck and kissed him, and they both wept. <sup>5</sup>And Esau looked up and saw
the women and the children, and said, 'What are these to thee?'  And he said, 'The
children wherewith God hath mercifully blessed thy servant'. <sup>6</sup>And the handmaids
came near, and their children, and they bowed themselves. <sup>7</sup>And Leah and her children
came near, and bowed themselves, and after this came Joseph near and Rachel, and
they  bowed  themselves. <sup>8</sup>And  he  said,  'What  are  these  things  to  thee,  all  these
companies which I met?' And he said, 'That thy servant might find grace in thy sight,
my lord'. <sup>9</sup>And Esau said, 'I have much, my brother; keep thine own'. <sup>10</sup>And Jacob said,
'If I have found grace in thy sight, receive the presents at my hand; for therefore I shall
have seen thy face, as though one should see the face of God, and thou shalt be well
pleased with me. <sup>11</sup>Take my blessings which I have brought to thee, because God hath
had mercy upon me, and I have all things.' And he embraced him, and he took them.
<sup>12</sup>And he said, 'Let us take our journey, and let us go onward. <sup>13</sup>And he said unto him,
'My lord knoweth that the children are tender, and the flocks and herds with young are
with me. If then I should overdrive them in one day, all the cattle will die. <sup>14</sup>Let my lord
pass on before his servant, and I shall have strength on the road according to the ease
of the journey before me, and according to the strength of the children, until I come
unto my lord unto Seir.' <sup>15</sup>And Esau said, 'I will leave with thee some of the folk that
are with me'. And he said, 'What needeth it? it is enough that I have found grace in thy
sight, my lord'. <sup>16</sup>And Esau returned that day on his journey to Seir. 
<sup>17</sup>And Jacob departeth to his tents, and he made him there habitations and
made booths for his cattle; therefore he called the name of the place, Booths. <sup>18</sup>And
Jacob came to Salem, a city of Shechem, which is in the land of Canaan, when he
departed out of Mesopotamia of Syria, and pitched his tent before the city. <sup>19</sup>And he
bought the parcel of a field, where he had pitched his tent, of Hamor, Shechem's father,
for an hundred lambs. <sup>20</sup>And he erected there an altar, and called upon the God of
Israel.