---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 39
chapter_order_number: 39
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>39</sup>
And Joseph was brought down to Egypt, and Potiphar, the eunuch of Pharaoh,
the chief cook, an Egyptian, bought him of the hands of the Ishmaelites, which had
brought him down thither. <sup>2</sup>And the LORD was with Joseph, and he was a prosperous
man, and he was in the house with his master the Egyptian. <sup>3</sup>And his master knew
that the LORD was with him, and the LORD maketh whatsoever he doeth to prosper in
his hands. <sup>4</sup>And Joseph found grace in the presence of his master, and was well
pleasing to him, and he set him over his house, and all that he had he gave into the
hand of Joseph. <sup>5</sup>And it came to pass, after that he was set over his house, and over all
that he had, that the LORD blessed the Egyptian's house for Joseph's sake; and the
blessing of the LORD was upon all that he had in his house, and in his field. <sup>6</sup>And he
committed all that he had into Joseph's hands, and he knew not aught he had, save the
bread which he himself did eat. 
And  Joseph  was  goodly  in  person,  and  exceeding  well­favoured  in  his
countenance. <sup>7</sup>And it came to pass after these things, that his master's wife cast her
eyes upon Joseph, and she said, 'Lie with me.'  <sup>8</sup>But he would not, but said unto his
master's wife, 'If because of me my master knoweth nothing in his house, and hath
committed all that he hath to my hands, <sup>9</sup>and there is nothing greater in this house
than I, neither hath anything been kept back from me but thee, because thou art his
wife ­ how then shall I do this wicked thing, and sin against God?'  <sup>10</sup>And when she
spake to Joseph day by day, then he hearkened not unto her to sleep with her, to know
her. <sup>11</sup>It came to pass on such a day, that Joseph went into the house to do his
business, and there was none of the household within. <sup>12</sup>And she caught him by his
garments, saying, 'Lie with me', and he left his garments in her hand, and fled, and got
him out. <sup>13</sup>And it came to pass, when she saw that he had left his garments in her
hands, and was fled and gone forth, <sup>14</sup>that she called unto them that were in the house,
and spake unto them, saying, “See, he hath brought in a Hebrew servant unto us to
mock us. He came in unto me, saying, “Lie with me”; and I cried with a loud voice;
<sup>15</sup>and when he heard that I lifted up my voice and cried, he left his garments with me,<sup>40</sup>and fled and got him out.'  <sup>16</sup>So she layeth up the garments by her, until the master
came to his house. <sup>17</sup>And she spake unto him according to these words, saying, 'The
Hebrew servant which thou broughtest in to us came unto me to mock me and said
unto me, “I will lie with thee”. <sup>18</sup>And when he heard that I lifted up my voice and cried,
he left his garments with me, and fled out, and departed forth.' <sup>19</sup>And it came to pass
when his master heard all the words of his wife, which she spake unto him, saying,
'This did thy servant to me', that he was exceeding wroth. <sup>20</sup>And his master took him,
and cast him into the prison, into the place where the king's prisoners are kept, there in
the prison. 
<sup>21</sup>And the LORD was with Joseph, and poured down mercy upon him, and gave
him favour in the sight of the chief keeper of the prison. <sup>22</sup>And the chief keeper of the
prison committed into Joseph's hand the prison, and all the men that were led away to
punishment, and all whatsoever they do there, he was doing. <sup>23</sup>Because of him, the
chief keeper of the prison knew nothing, for all things were in Joseph's hands, because
the LORD was with him, and whatsoever things he did, the LORD made them to
prosper in his hands.