---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 41
chapter_order_number: 41
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>41</sup>
And it came to pass after two years of days, that Pharaoh saw a dream. He
thought that he stood by the river. <sup>2</sup>And behold, there came up as it were out of the
river seven well­favoured kine and choice­fleshed, and they fed in the sedge. <sup>3</sup>And
seven other kine came up after them out of the river, ill­favoured and lean­fleshed, and
fed by the other kine upon the brink of the river. <sup>4</sup>And the seven ill­favoured and lean­
fleshed kine did eat up the seven well­favoured and choice­fleshed kine; and Pharaoh
awoke. <sup>5</sup>And he dreamed again, and behold, seven ears came up upon one stalk, choice
and good. <sup>6</sup>And behold, seven thin ears and blasted with the wind, grew up after them.
<sup>7</sup>And the seven thin ears and blasted with the wind devoured the seven choice and full
ears. And Pharaoh awoke, and it was a dream. 
<sup>8</sup>And it was morning, and his soul was troubled, and he sent and called all the
interpreters of Egypt, and all the wise men thereof; and Pharaoh told them his dream,
but there was none to tell it unto Pharaoh. <sup>9</sup>Then spake the chief cupbearer unto
Pharaoh, saying, 'I do remember my fault this day. <sup>10</sup>Pharaoh was wroth with his
servants, and put us in ward in the captain of the guard's house, both me and the chief
baker. <sup>11</sup>And we saw a dream both in one night, I and he; we saw each man according
to his dream. <sup>12</sup>And there was there with us a young man, a Hebrew servant of the
captain of the guard; and we told them unto him, and he interpreted them to us. <sup>13</sup>And
it came to pass, as he interpreted them to us, so also it came to pass; both that I was
restored unto mine office, and that he was hanged.' 
<sup>14</sup>Then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph, and they brought him out of the
prison, and shaved him, and changed his raiment; and he came unto Pharaoh. <sup>15</sup>And
Pharaoh said unto Joseph, 'I have seen a dream, and there is none to interpret it, and I
have heard men say of thee that thou dost hear dreams and interpret them'. <sup>16</sup>And
Joseph answered Pharaoh, saying, 'Without God there shall not be given Pharaoh an
answer of safety'. <sup>17</sup>And Pharaoh spake unto Joseph, saying, 'In my dream methought I
stood by the bank of the river; <sup>18</sup>and there came up as it were out of the river seven
kine, well­favoured and choice­fleshed, and they fed in the sedge. <sup>19</sup>And, behold, seven
other kine came up after them, evil and ill­favoured and lean­fleshed, such as I never
saw worse in all the land of Egypt. <sup>20</sup>And the seven ill­favoured and lean kine did eat up
the first seven good and choice kine. <sup>21</sup>And they went into their bellies, and it could not
be known that they had gone into their bellies, and their appearance was ill­favoured as
also at the beginning. And after I awoke I slept, <sup>22</sup>and I saw again in my sleep, and as it
were seven ears came up in one stalk, full and good, <sup>23</sup>and seven other ears, thin, and
blasted with the wind, sprung up close to them. <sup>24</sup>And the seven thin and blasted ears
devoured the seven fine and full ears. So I told to the interpreters, but there was none
to tell it to me.' 
<sup>25</sup>And Joseph said unto Pharaoh, 'The dream of Pharaoh is one; whatsoever
God doeth, He hath shewed Pharaoh. <sup>26</sup>The seven good kine are seven years, and the
seven good ears are seven years; the dream of Pharaoh is one. <sup>27</sup>And the seven thin
kine that came up after them are seven years; and the seven ears thin and blasted with
the wind are seven years; there shall be seven years of famine. <sup>28</sup>And as for the word
which I have spoken unto Pharaoh, God hath shewed unto Pharaoh what He is about to
do. <sup>29</sup>Behold, for seven years there cometh great plenty in all the land of Egypt. <sup>30</sup>But
there shall come after them seven years of famine, and they shall forget the plenty that<sup>42</sup>shall be in all Egypt; and the famine shall cover the land. <sup>31</sup>And the plenty shall not be
known in the land by reason of the famine that shall be after this, for it shall be very
grievous. <sup>32</sup>And for the doubling of the dream unto Pharaoh twice, it is because the
saying, which is from God, shall be true; and God will make haste to bring it to pass.
<sup>33</sup>Now therefore, look out a man wise and prudent, and set him over the land of Egypt.
<sup>34</sup>And let Pharaoh make and appoint local governors over the land, and let them take up
a fifth part of all the produce of the land of Egypt for the seven years of plenteousness.
<sup>35</sup>And let them gather all the food of those good years that come, and let the corn be
gathered up under the hand of Pharaoh; let the food be kept in the cities. <sup>36</sup>And the
food that is stored shall be for the land against the seven years of famine which shall be
in the land of Egypt, and the land shall not be utterly destroyed through the famine.' 
<sup>37</sup>And the word was pleasing in the eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes of all his
servants. <sup>38</sup>And Pharaoh said unto his servants, 'Shall we find such a one as this,
which hath the spirit of God in him?' <sup>39</sup>So Pharaoh said unto Joseph, 'Forasmuch as
God hath shewed thee all these things, there is not a man wiser or more discreet than
thou. <sup>40</sup>Thou shalt be over my house, and all my people shall be obedient to thy mouth;
only in the throne will I be above thee.' <sup>41</sup>And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, 'See, I set thee
this day over all the land of Egypt'. <sup>42</sup>And Pharaoh took off his ring from his hand, and
put it upon Joseph's hand, and put on him a robe of fine linen, and put a collar of gold
about his neck. <sup>43</sup>And he mounted him in the second chariot of them that were his, and
a herald cried before him, and he set him over all the land of Egypt. <sup>44</sup>And Pharaoh said
unto Joseph, 'I am Pharaoh; without thee shall no man lift up his hand in all the land
of Egypt'. <sup>45</sup>And Pharaoh called Joseph's name Zaphnath­paaneah, and he gave him to
wife Aseneth the daughter of Poti­pherah priest of On. <sup>46</sup>And Joseph was thirty years
old when he stood before Pharaoh king of Egypt. 
And Joseph went out from the presence of Pharaoh, and went throughout all
the land of Egypt. <sup>47</sup>And in the seven years of plenteousness the land brought forth by
handfuls. <sup>48</sup>And he gathered up all the food of the seven years, in the which was the
plenteousness in the land of Egypt, and laid up the food in the cities; the food of the
field of a city round about it, laid he up in the same. <sup>49</sup>And Joseph gathered corn as the
sand of the sea, very much, until it could not be numbered; for there was no number. 
<sup>50</sup>And unto Joseph were born two sons before the seven years of famine came,
which Asenath, the daughter of Poti­pherah, priest of On, bare unto him. <sup>51</sup>And Joseph
called the name of the firstborn Manasseh; 'For God hath made me forget all my pain
and all things that pertain to my father'. <sup>52</sup>And the name of the second called he
Ephraim; 'For God hath increased me in the land of my humiliation. 
<sup>53</sup>And the seven years of plenteousness passed away, which were in the land of
Egypt. <sup>54</sup>And the seven years of dearth began to come, according as Joseph had said,
and the dearth was in all the land; but in all the land of Egypt there was bread. <sup>55</sup>And
all the land of Egypt was famished, and the people cried to Pharaoh for bread. And
Pharaoh said unto all the Egyptians, 'Go unto Joseph, and whatsoever he saith to you,
do'. <sup>56</sup>And the famine was over the face of all the earth, and Joseph opened all the
storehouses, and sold unto all the Egyptians. <sup>57</sup>And all countries came into Egypt for to
buy of Joseph, because that the famine prevailed in all the earth.