---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 46
chapter_order_number: 46
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>46</sup>
And Israel took his journey, he and all that he had, and came unto the Well of
the Oath, and offered sacrifice unto the God of his father Isaac. <sup>2</sup>And God spake unto
Israel in a vision of the night, and said, 'Jacob, Jacob'. And he said, 'What is it?' <sup>3</sup>And
he saith unto him, 'I am the God of thy fathers; fear not to go into Egypt, for I will there
make thee a great nation. <sup>4</sup>And I will go down with thee into Egypt, and I will bring thee
up again at the end, and Joseph shall put his hands upon thine eyes.' <sup>5</sup>And Jacob rose
up from the Well of the Oath, and the sons of Israel took up their father, and their
baggage, and their wives, in the wagons, which Joseph had sent to take them. <sup>6</sup>And
they took up their goods and all their substance, which they had gotten in the land of
Canaan. They came into the land of Egypt, Jacob and all his seed with him; <sup>7</sup>his sons
and his sons' sons with him, his daughters and his daughters' daughters and all his
seed, brought he into Egypt. 
<sup>8</sup>And these are the names of the sons of Israel, which went into Egypt with
their father Jacob, Jacob and his sons; Reuben, Jacob's firstborn. <sup>9</sup>And the sons of
Reuben; Hanoch, and Phallu, Hezron, and Carmi. <sup>10</sup>And the sons of Simeon; Jemuel,
and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul, the son of the Cananitish
woman. <sup>11</sup>And the sons of Levi; Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. <sup>12</sup>And the sons of Judah;
Er, and Onan, and Selom, and Pharez, and Zerah; but Er and Onan died in the land of
Canaan. And the sons of Pharez; Hezron, and Hamul. <sup>13</sup>And the sons of Issachar; Tola,
and Phuvah, and Job, and Shimron. <sup>14</sup>And the sons of Zebulun; Sered, and Elon, and
Jahleel. <sup>15</sup>These be the sons of Leah, which she bare unto Jacob in Mesopotamia of
Syria, and his daughter Dinah; all the souls of his sons and his daughters were thirty
and three. <sup>16</sup>And the sons of Gad; Ziphion, and Haggai, and Shuni, and Ezbon, and Eri,
and Arodi, and Areli. <sup>17</sup>And the sons of Asher; Jimnah, and Ishuah, and Isui, and
Beriah, and Serah their sister. And the sons of Beriah; Heber, and Malchiel. <sup>18</sup>These
are the sons of Zilpah, whom Laban gave to Leah his daughter, who bare these unto
Jacob,  even  sixteen  souls. <sup>19</sup>And  the  sons  of  Rachel,  Jacob's  wife;  Joseph,  and
Benjamin. <sup>20</sup>And unto Joseph in the land of Egypt were born sons which Aseneth the
daughter of Potiphar priest of On bare unto him, even Manasseh, and Ephraim. And
there were sons born unto Manasseh, which the Syrian concubine bare unto him, even<sup>48</sup>Machir. And Machir begat Gilead. And the sons of Ephraim, the brother of Manasseh;
Shuthelah and Tahan. And the son of Shuthelah; Edom. <sup>21</sup>And the sons of Benjamin;
Belah and Becher and Ashbel. And the sons of Belah; Gera and Naaman and Ehi and
Rosh and Muppim and Huppim; and Gera begat Ard. <sup>22</sup>These are the sons of Rachel,
which she bare unto Jacob; all the souls were eighteen. <sup>23</sup>And the sons of Dan;
Hushim. <sup>24</sup>And the sons of Naphtali; Jahzeel, and Guni, and Jezer, and Shillem.
<sup>25</sup>These are the sons of Bilhah, which Laban gave unto Rachel his daughter, who bare
these to Jacob; all the souls were seven. <sup>26</sup>And all the souls that came with Jacob into
Egypt, which came out of his loins, besides Jacob's sons' wives, all the souls were
threescore and six. <sup>27</sup>And the sons of Joseph, which were born to him in the land of
Egypt, were nine souls. All the souls of the house of Jacob, which came with Jacob into
Egypt, were threescore and fifteen souls.
<sup>28</sup>And he sent Judah before him unto Joseph, to meet him at the city of Heroes
in the land of Rameses. <sup>29</sup>And Joseph yoked his chariots, and went up to meet his
father at the city of Heroes, and he appeared unto him and fell on his neck and wept
with much weeping. <sup>30</sup>And Jacob said unto Joseph, 'After this will I die, since I have
seen thy face, for thou art yet alive'. <sup>31</sup>And Joseph said unto his brethren, 'I will go up
and shew Pharaoh, and say unto him, “My brethren and my father's house, which were
in the land of Canaan, are come unto me. <sup>32</sup>And the men are shepherds, for they have
been feeders of cattle, and they have brought with them their cattle, and their kine, and
all that they have.”  <sup>33</sup>If then Pharaoh call you, and say unto you, “What is your
occupation?” <sup>34</sup>ye shall say, “We thy servants are herdsmen from our youth even until
now, both we and our fathers”; that ye may dwell in the land of Goshen of Arabia; for
every shepherd is an abomination unto the Egyptians.” '