---
testament: Old Testament
testament_link: Old_Testament
chapter_number: 49
chapter_order_number: 49
chapter_word: 
total_chapters: 50
book_short_name: Genesis
book_link_name: Genesis
layout: chapter
---

CHAPTER <sup>49</sup>
And Jacob called his sons and said unto them, 'Gather yourselves together,
that I may tell you that which shall befall you in the last days. <sup>2</sup>Gather yourselves
together and hear me, sons of Jacob; hearken unto Israel, hearken unto your father.
<sup>3</sup>Reuben, thou my firstborn, my strength, and the beginning of my children, hard to be
endured, hard and self­willed. <sup>4</sup>Thou wast insolent like water, burst not forth with
violence, because thou wentest up to thy father's bed, then thou defiledst the couch
whereupon thou wentest up. <sup>5</sup>Simeon and Levi, brethren, accomplished the injustice by
their own choice. <sup>6</sup>Let not my soul come into their counsel, and let not my reins
contend in their conspiracy, for in their anger they slew men, and in their passion they
houghed a bull. <sup>7</sup>Cursed be their anger for it was self­willed, and their wrath, for it was
hardened; I will divide them in Jacob, and scatter them in Israel. <sup>8</sup>Judah, thy brethren
have praised thee, and thine hands shall be upon the back of thine enemies; thy
father's sons shall bow before thee. <sup>9</sup>Judah is a lion's whelp; from the tender plant, my
son, thou art gone up; thou hast couched, thou sleepest as a lion, and as a whelp; who
shall rouse him up? <sup>10</sup>A ruler shall not fail from Judah, nor a ruler from his loins, until
there come the things stored up for him, and he is the expectation of the nations.<sup>5111</sup>Binding his foal unto the vine, and the foal of his ass unto the branch thereof, he shall
wash his robe in wine, and his garment in the blood of the grape. <sup>12</sup>His eyes shall be
more joyful than wine, and his teeth whiter than milk. <sup>13</sup>Zebulun shall dwell upon the
coast, and shall be by a haven of ships, and shall be unto Sidon. <sup>14</sup>Issachar hath
desired that which is good, resting between the inheritances. <sup>15</sup>And he saw the resting
place, that it was good, and the land that it was rich; and he subjected his shoulder to
toil, and became a husbandman. <sup>16</sup>Dan shall judge his people, as one tribe also in
Israel. <sup>17</sup>And let Dan be a serpent in the way, besetting the path, biting the horse's heel,
and the rider shall fall backward, <sup>18</sup>waiting for the salvation of the LORD. <sup>19</sup>Gad, a
ravening troop shall spoil him, but he shall spoil them at their heels closely. <sup>20</sup>Asher,
his bread shall be fat, and he shall give delicacies unto chiefs. <sup>21</sup>Naphtali is a spreading
stem, which bestoweth beauty by the fruit thereof. <sup>22</sup>Joseph, son that is increased, my
dearly beloved son that is increased, one to be envied, my youngest son, turn thou unto
me; <sup>23</sup>against whom men took evil counsel, and reproached him, and the archers
pressed hard upon him. <sup>24</sup>But their bows and their arrows were crushed with force,
and the sinews of their arm were slackened by the hand of the Mighty One of Jacob.
Thence is he that strengthened Israel from the God of thy father; <sup>25</sup>and my God helped
me, and He blessed thee with the blessing of heaven from above and the blessing of the
earth, which possesseth all things, because of the blessing of the breasts and of the
womb, <sup>26</sup>the blessings of thy father and thy mother. It hath prevailed above the blessing
of the lasting mountains, and beyond the blessings of the everlasting hills. They shall
be upon the head of Joseph, and upon the head of the brethren of whom he took the
lead. <sup>27</sup>Benjamin is a ravening wolf; in the morning shall he eat still, and at evening he
giveth nourishment.' 
<sup>28</sup>All these are the twelve sons of Jacob. And their father spake these words
unto them, and he blessed them, and every one according to his blessing he blessed
them. <sup>29</sup>And he said unto them, 'I am added unto my people; ye shall bury me with my
fathers in the cave that is in the field of Ephron the Hittite, <sup>30</sup>in the double cave which is
against Mamre in the land of Canaan, the cave which Abraham bought of Ephron for a
possession of a burying­place'. <sup>31</sup>There they buried Abraham and Sarah his wife; there
they buried Isaac and Rebekah his wife; there they buried Leah, <sup>32</sup>in the portion of the
field and of the cave that was therein, purchased of the sons of Heth. <sup>33</sup>And Jacob
made an end of giving charges unto his sons, and he lifted up his feet upon the bed,
and died, and was gathered unto his people.